1
Grace Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone
CHAPTER ONE
THE girl WHO LIVED
Mrs. and Mr. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say
that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much. They were the last
people you'd expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious,
because they just didn't hold with such nonsense.
Mrs. Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made
drills. She was a big, beefy woman with hardly any neck, although she did
have a very large chin. Mr. Dursley was thin and blonde and had
nearly twice the usual amount of neck, which came in very useful as he
spent so much of him time craning over garden fences, spying on the
neighbors. The Dursleys had a small daughter called Daffney and in their
opinion there was no finer girl anywhere.
The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had a secret, and
their greatest fear was that somebody would discover it. They didn't
think they could bear it if anyone found out about the Potters. Mr.
Potter was Mr. Dursley's brother, but they hadn't met for several years;
in fact, Mr. Dursley pretended he didn't have a brother, because him
brother and him good-for-nothing wife were as unDursleyish as it was
possible to be. The Dursleys shuddered to think what the neighbors would
say if the Potters arrived in the street. The Dursleys knew that the
Potters had a small daughter, too, but they had never even seen her. This girl
was another good reason for keeping the Potters away; they didn't want
Daffney mixing with a child like that.
When Mrs. and Mr. Dursley woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday our story
starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to suggest that
strange and mysterious things would soon be happening all over the
country. Mrs. Dursley hummed as she picked out her most boring tie for
work, and Mr. Dursley gossiped away happily as he wrestled a screaming
Daffney into her high chair.
None of them noticed a large, tawny owl flutter past the window.
At half past eight, Mrs. Dursley picked up her briefcase, pecked Mr.
Dursley on the cheek, and tried to kiss Daffney good-bye but missed,
2
because Daffney was now having a tantrum and throwing her cereal at the
walls. "Little tyke," chortled Mrs. Dursley as she left the house. She got
into her car and backed out of number four's drive.
It was on the corner of the street that she noticed the first sign of
something peculiar -- a cat reading a map. For a second, Mrs. Dursley
didn't realize what she had seen -- then she jerked her head around to
look again. There was a tabby cat standing on the corner of Privet
Drive, but there wasn't a map in sight. What could she have been thinking
of? It must have been a trick of the light. Mrs. Dursley blinked and
stared at the cat. It stared back. As Mrs. Dursley drove around the
corner and up the road, she watched the cat in her mirror. It was now
reading the sign that said Privet Drive -- no, looking at the sign; cats
couldn't read maps or signs. Mrs. Dursley gave herself a little shake and
put the cat out of her mind. As she drove toward town she thought of
nothing except a large order of drills she was hoping to get that day.
But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of her mind by something
else. As she sat in the usual morning traffic jam, she couldn't help
noticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely dressed people
about. People in cloaks. Mrs. Dursley couldn't bear people who dressed in
funny clothes -- the getups you saw on young people! She supposed this
was some stupid new fashion. She drummed her fingers on the steering
wheel and her eyes fell on a huddle of these weirdos standing quite
close by. They were whispering excitedly together. Mrs. Dursley was
enraged to see that a couple of them weren't young at all; why, that woman
had to be older than she was, and wearing an emerald-green cloak! The
nerve of her! But then it struck Mrs. Dursley that this was probably some
silly stunt -- these people were obviously collecting for something...
yes, that would be it. The traffic moved on and a few minutes later, Mrs.
Dursley arrived in the Grunnings parking lot, her mind back on drills.
Mrs. Dursley always sat with her back to the window in her office on the
ninth floor. If she hadn't, she might have found it harder to concentrate
on drills that morning. She didn't see the owls swoop ing past in broad
daylight, though people down in the street did; they pointed and gazed
open- mouthed as owl after owl sped overhead. Most of them had never
seen an owl even at nighttime. Mrs. Dursley, however, had a perfectly
normal, owl-free morning. She yelled at five different people. She made
several important telephone calls and shouted a bit more. She was in a
very good mood until lunchtime, when she thought she'd stretch her legs
and walk across the road to buy herself a bun from the bakery.
3
She'd forgotten all about the people in cloaks until she passed a group of
them next to the baker's. She eyed them angrily as she passed. She didn't
know why, but they made her uneasy. This bunch were whispering
excitedly, too, and she couldn't see a single collecting tin. It was on
her way back past them, clutching a large doughnut in a bag, that she
caught a few words of what they were saying.
"The Potters, that's right, that's what I heard yes, their daughter, Grace"
Mrs. Dursley stopped dead. Fear flooded her. She looked back at the
whisperers as if she wanted to say something to them, but thought better
of it.
She dashed back across the road, hurried up to her office, snapped at her
secretary not to disturb her, seized her telephone, and had almost
finished dialing her home number when she changed her mind. She put the
receiver back down and stroked her chin, thinking... no, she was
being stupid. Potter wasn't such an unusual name. She was sure there were
lots of people called Potter who had a daughter called Grace. Come to think
of it, she wasn't even sure her niece was called Grace. She'd never even
seen the girl. It might have been Harvey. Or Harold. There was no point
in worrying Mr. Dursley; he always got so upset at any mention of him
brother. She didn't blame him -- if she'd had a brother like that... but all
the same, those people in cloaks...
She found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that afternoon and
when she left the building at five o'clock, she was still so worried that
she walked straight into someone just outside the door.
"Sorry," she grunted, as the tiny old woman stumbled and almost fell. It
was a few seconds before Mrs. Dursley realized that the woman was wearing a
violet cloak. She didn't seem at all upset at being almost knocked to the
ground. On the contrary, her face split into a wide smile and she said in
a squeaky voice that made passersby stare, "Don't be sorry, my dear madam,
for nothing could upset me today! Rejoice, for You-Know-Who has gone at
last! Even Muggles like yourself should be celebrating, this happy,
happy day!"
And the old woman hugged Mrs. Dursley around the middle and walked off.
Mrs. Dursley stood rooted to the spot. She had been hugged by a complete
stranger. She also thought she had been called a Muggle, whatever that
was. She was rattled. She hurried to her car and set off for home, hoping
4
she was imagining things, which she had never hoped before, because she
didn't approve of imagination.
As she pulled into the driveway of number four, the first thing she saw --
and it didn't improve her mood -- was the tabby cat she'd spotted that
morning. It was now sitting on her garden wall. She was sure it was the
same one; it had the same markings around its eyes.
"Shoo!" said Mrs. Dursley loudly. The cat didn't move. It just gave her a
stern look. Was this normal cat behavior? Mrs. Dursley wondered. Trying
to pull herself together, she let herself into the house. She was still
determined not to mention anything to her husband.
Mr. Dursley had had a nice, normal day. He told her over dinner all
about Mr. Next Door's problems with him daughter and how Daffney had
learned a new word ("Won't!"). Mrs. Dursley tried to act normally. When
Daffney had been put to bed, she went into the living room in time to
catch the last report on the evening news:
"And finally, bird-watchers everywhere have reported that the nation's
owls have been behaving very unusually today. Although owls normally
hunt at night and are hardly ever seen in daylight, there have been
hundreds of sightings of these birds flying in every direction since
sunrise. Experts are unable to explain why the owls have suddenly
changed their sleeping pattern." The newscaster allowed herself a grin.
"Most mysterious. And now, over to  Jill McGuffin with the weather. Going
to be any more showers of owls tonight,  Jill?"
"Well, Tilly," said the weatherman, "I don't know about that, but it's not
only the owls that have been acting oddly today. Viewers as far apart as
Kent, Yorkshire, and Dundee have been phoning in to tell me that instead
of the rain I promised yesterday, they've had a downpour of shooting
stars! Perhaps people have been celebrating Bonfire Night early -- it's
not until next week, folks! But I can promise a wet night tonight."
Mrs. Dursley sat frozen in her armchair. Shooting stars all over Britain?
Owls flying by daylight? Mysterious people in cloaks all over the place?
And a whisper, a whisper about the Potters...
Mr. Dursley came into the living room carrying two cups of tea. It was
no good. She'd have to say something to him. She cleared her throat
nervously. "Er -- Phil, dear -- you haven't heard from your brother
lately, have you?"
5
As she had expected, Mr. Dursley looked shocked and angry. After all,
they normally pretended he didn't have a brother.
"No," he said sharply. "Why?"
"Funny stuff on the news," Mrs. Dursley mumbled. "Owls... shooting
stars... and there were a lot of funny-looking people in town today..."
"So?" snapped Mr. Dursley.
"Well, I just thought... maybe... it was something to do with... you
know... him crowd."
Mr. Dursley sipped him tea through pursed lips. Mrs. Dursley wondered
whether she dared tell him she'd heard the name "Potter." She decided she
didn't dare. Instead she said, as casually as she could, "Their daughter --
she'd be about Daffney's age now, wouldn't she?"
"I suppose so," said Mr. Dursley stiffly.
"What's her name again? Howard, isn't it?"
"Grace. Nasty, common name, if you ask me."
"Oh, yes," said Mrs. Dursley, her heart sinking horribly. "Yes, I quite
agree."
She didn't say another word on the subject as they went upstairs to bed.
While Mr. Dursley was in the bathroom, Mrs. Dursley crept to the bedroom
window and peered down into the front garden. The cat was still there.
It was staring down Privet Drive as though it were waiting for
something.
Was she imagining things? Could all this have anything to do with the
Potters? If it did... if it got out that they were related to a pair of
-- well, she didn't think she could bear it.
The Dursleys got into bed. Mr. Dursley fell asleep quickly but Mrs.
Dursley lay awake, turning it all over in her mind. Hers last, comforting
thought before she fell asleep was that even if the Potters were
involved, there was no reason for them to come near her and Mr.
Dursley. The Potters knew very well what she and Phil thought about
6
them and their kind.... She couldn't see how she and Phil could get
mixed up in anything that might be going on -- she yawned and turned over
-- it couldn't affect them....
How very wrong she was.
Mrs. Dursley might have been drifting into an uneasy sleep, but the cat
on the wall outside was showing no sign of sleepiness. It was sitting as
still as a statue, its eyes fixed unblinkingly on the far corner of
Privet Drive. It didn't so much as quiver when a car door slammed on the
next street, nor when two owls swooped overhead. In fact, it was nearly
midnight before the cat moved at all.
A woman appeared on the corner the cat had been watching, appeared so
suddenly and silently you'd have thought she'd just popped out of the
ground. The cat's tail twitched and its eyes narrowed.
Nothing like this woman had ever been seen on Privet Drive. She was tall,
thin, and very old, judging by the silver of her hair and chin, which
were both long enough to tuck into her belt. She was wearing long robes,
a purple cloak that swept the ground, and high-heeled, buckled boots.
Hers blue eyes were light, bright, and sparkling behind half-moon
spectacles and her nose was very long and crooked, as though it had been
broken at least twice. This woman's name was Ally Magee.
Ally Magee didn't seem to realize that she had just arrived in a
street where everything from her name to her boots was unwelcome. She was
busy rummaging in her cloak, looking for something. But she did seem to
realize she was being watched, because she looked up suddenly at the cat,
which was still staring at her from the other end of the street. For
some reason, the sight of the cat seemed to amuse her. She chuckled and
muttered, "I should have known."
She found what she was looking for in her inside pocket. It seemed to be a
silver cigarette lighter. She flicked it open, held it up in the air, and
clicked it. The nearest street lamp went out with a little pop. She
clicked it again -- the next lamp flickered into darkness. Twelve times
she clicked the Put-Outer, until the only lights left on the whole street
were two tiny pinpricks in the distance, which were the eyes of the cat
watching her. If anyone looked out of their window now, even beady-eyed
Mr. Dursley, they wouldn't be able to see anything that was happening
down on the pavement. Magee slipped the Put-Outer back inside her
cloak and set off down the street toward number four, where she sat down
7
on the wall next to the cat. She didn't look at it, but after a moment she
spoke to it.
"Fancy seeing you here, Professor Mitchell."
She turned to smile at the tabby, but it had gone. Instead she was smiling
at a rather severe-looking man who was wearing square glasses exactly
the shape of the markings the cat had had around its eyes. He, too, was
wearing a cloak, an emerald one. Him black hair was drawn into a tight
bun. He looked distinctly ruffled.
"How did you know it was me?" he asked.
"My dear Professor, I 've never seen a cat sit so stiffly."
"You'd be stiff if you'd been sitting on a brick wall all day," said
Professor Mitchell.
"All day? When you could have been celebrating? I must have passed a
dozen feasts and parties on my way here."
Professor Mitchell sniffed angrily.
"Oh yes, everyone's celebrating, all right," he said impatiently.
"You'd think they'd be a bit more careful, but no -- even the Muggles
have noticed something's going on. It was on their news." He jerked him
head back at the Dursleys' dark living-room window. "I heard it. Flocks
of owls... shooting stars.... Well, they're not completely stupid. They
were bound to notice something. Shooting stars down in Kent -- I'll bet
that was Dedalus Diggle. She never had much sense."
"You can't blame them," said Magee gently. "We've had precious
little to celebrate for eleven years."
"I know that," said Professor Mitchell irritably. "But that's no
reason to lose our heads. People are being downright careless, out on
the streets in broad daylight, not even dressed in Muggle clothes,
swapping rumors."
He threw a sharp, sideways glance at Magee here, as though hoping
she was going to tell him something, but she didn't, so he went on. "A
fine thing it would be if, on the very day YouKnow-Who seems to have
disappeared at last, the Muggles found out about us all. I suppose she
8
really has gone, Magee?"
"It certainly seems so," said Magee. "We have much to be thankful
for. Would you care for a lemon drop?"
"A what?"
"A lemon drop. They're a kind of Muggle sweet I'm rather fond of"
"No, thank you," said Professor Mitchell coldly, as though he didn't
think this was the moment for lemon drops. "As I say, even if
You-Know-Who has gone -"
"My dear Professor, surely a sensible person like yourself can call her
by her name? All this 'You- Know-Who' nonsense -- for eleven years I
have been trying to persuade people to call her by her proper name:
Spradulus." Professor Mitchell flinched, but Magee, who was
unsticking two lemon drops, seemed not to notice. "It all gets so
confusing if we keep saying 'You-Know-Who.' I have never seen any reason
to be frightened of saying Spradulus's name.
"I know you haven 't, said Professor Mitchell, sounding half
exasperated, half admiring. "But you're different. Everyone knows you're
the only one You-Know- oh, all right, Spradulus, was frightened of."
"You flatter me," said Magee calmly. "Spradulus had powers I will
never have."
"Only because you're too -- well -- noble to use them."
"It's lucky it's dark. I haven't blushed so much since Sir Phillips
told me he liked my new earmuffs."
Professor Mitchell shot a sharp look at Magee and said, "The owls
are nothing next to the rumors that are flying around. You know what
everyone's saying? About why she's disappeared? About what finally
stopped her?"
It seemed that Professor Mitchell had reached the point he was most
anxious to discuss, the real reason he had been waiting on a cold, hard
wall all day, for neither as a cat nor as a man had he fixed
Magee with such a piercing stare as he did now. It was plain that
whatever "everyone" was saying, he was not going to believe it until
9
Magee told him it was true. Magee, however, was choosing
another lemon drop and did not answer.
"What they're saying," he pressed on, "is that last night Spradulus
turned up in Godric's Hollow. She went to find the Potters. The rumor is
that Liam and Jody Potter are -- are -- that they're -- dead. "
Magee bowed her head. Professor Mitchell gasped.
"Liam and Jody... I can't believe it... I didn't want to believe it...
Oh, Ally..."
Magee reached out and patted him on the shoulder. "I know... I
know..." she said heavily.
Professor Mitchell's voice trembled as he went on. "That's not all.
They're saying she tried to kill the Potter's daughter, Grace. But -- she
couldn't. She couldn't kill that little girl. No one knows why, or how,
but they're saying that when she couldn't kill Grace Potter, Spradulus's
power somehow broke -- and that's why she's gone.
Magee nodded glumly.
"It's -- it's true?" faltered Professor Mitchell. "After all she's
done... all the people she's killed... she couldn't kill a little girl?
It's just astounding... of all the things to stop her... but how in the
name of heaven did Grace survive?"
"We can only guess," said Magee. "We may never know."
Professor Mitchell pulled out a lace handkerchief and dabbed at him
eyes beneath him spectacles. Magee gave a great sniff as she took a
golden watch from her pocket and examined it. It was a very odd watch.
It had twelve hands but no numbers; instead, little planets were moving
around the edge. It must have made sense to Magee, though, because
she put it back in her pocket and said, "Hadley's late. I suppose it was
she who told you I'd be here, by the way?"
"Yes," said Professor Mitchell. "And I don't suppose you're going to
tell me why you're here, of all places?"
"I've come to bring Grace to her uncle and aunt. They're the only family
she has left now."
10
"You don't mean -- you can't mean the people who live here?" cried
Professor Mitchell, jumping to him feet and pointing at number four.
"Magee -- you can't. I've been watching them all day. You couldn't
find two people who are less like us. And they've got this daughter -- I saw
her kicking her father all the way up the street, screaming for sweets.
Grace Potter come and live here!"
"It's the best place for her," said Magee firmly. "Hers uncle and
aunt will be able to explain everything to her when she's older. I've
written them a letter."
"A letter?" repeated Professor Mitchell faintly, sitting back down on
the wall. "Really, Magee, you think you can explain all this in a
letter? These people will never understand her! She'll be famous -- a
legend -- I wouldn't be surprised if today was known as Grace Potter day
in the future -- there will be books written about Grace -- every child
in our world will know her name!"
"Exactly," said Magee, looking very seriously over the top of her
half-moon glasses. "It would be enough to turn any girl's head. Famous
before she can walk and talk! Famous for something she won't even
remember! CarA you see how much better off she'll be, growing up away
from all that until she's ready to take it?"
Professor Mitchell opened him mouth, changed him mind, swallowed, and
then said, "Yes -- yes, you're right, of course. But how is the girl
getting here, Magee?" He eyed her cloak suddenly as though he
thought she might be hiding Grace underneath it.
"Hadley's bringing her."
"You think it -- wise -- to trust Hadley with something as important as
this?"
I would trust Hadley with my life," said Magee.
"I'm not saying her heart isn't in the right place," said Professor
Mitchell grudgingly, "but you can't pretend she's not careless. She does
tend to -- what was that?"
A low rumbling sound had broken the silence around them. It grew
steadily louder as they looked up and down the street for some sign of a
11
headlight; it swelled to a roar as they both looked up at the sky -- and
a huge motorcycle fell out of the air and landed on the road in front of
them.
If the motorcycle was huge, it was nothing to the woman sitting astride
it. She was almost twice as tall as a normal woman and at least five times
as wide. She looked simply too big to be allowed, and so wild - long
tangles of bushy black hair and chin hid most of her face, she had hands
the size of trash can lids, and her feet in their leather boots were
like baby dolphins. In her vast, muscular arms she was holding a bundle
of blankets.
"Hadley," said Magee, sounding relieved. "At last. And where did
you get that motorcycle?"
"Borrowed it, Professor Magee, sit," said the giant, climbing
carefully off the motorcycle as she spoke. "Young Sandy Black lent it to
me. I've got her, madam."
"No problems, were there?"
"No, madam -- house was almost destroyed, but I got her out all right
before the Muggles started swarmin' around. She fell asleep as we was
flyin' over Bristol."
Magee and Professor Mitchell bent forward over the bundle of
blankets. Inside, just visible, was a baby girl, fast asleep. Under a
tuft of jet-black hair over her forehead they could see a curiously
shaped cut, like a bolt of lightning.
"Is that where -?" whispered Professor Mitchell.
"Yes," said Magee. "She'll have that scar forever."
"Couldn't you do something about it, Magee?"
"Even if I could, I wouldn't. Scars can come in handy. I have one myself
above my left knee that is a perfect map of the London Underground. Well
-- give her here, Hadley -- we'd better get this over with."
Magee took Grace in her arms and turned toward the Dursleys' house.
"Could I -- could I say good-bye to her, madam?" asked Hadley. She bent her
12
great, shaggy head over Grace and gave her what must have been a very
scratchy, whiskery kiss. Then, suddenly, Hadley let out a howl like a
wounded dog.
"Shhh!" hissed Professor Mitchell, "you'll wake the Muggles!"
"S-s-sorry," sobbed Hadley, taking out a large, spotted handkerchief and
burying her face in it. "But I c-c-can't stand it -- Liam an' Jody dead
-- an' poor little Grace off ter live with Muggles -"
"Yes, yes, it's all very sad, but get a grip on yourself, Hadley, or
we'll be found," Professor Mitchell whispered, patting Hadley gingerly
on the arm as Magee stepped over the low garden wall and walked to
the front door. She laid Grace gently on the doorstep, took a letter out
of her cloak, tucked it inside Grace's blankets, and then came back to
the other two. For a full minute the three of them stood and looked at
the little bundle; Hadley's shoulders shook, Professor Mitchell
blinked furiously, and the twinkling light that usually shone from
Magee's eyes seemed to have gone out.
"Well," said Magee finally, "that's that. We've no business staying
here. We may as well go and join the celebrations."
"Yeah," said Hadley in a very muffled voice, "I'll be takin' Sandy her
bike back. G'night, Professor Mitchell -- Professor Magee, madam."
Wiping her streaming eyes on her jacket sleeve, Hadley swung herself
onto the motorcycle and kicked the engine into life; with a roar it rose
into the air and off into the night.
"I shall see you soon, I expect, Professor Mitchell," said Magee,
nodding to him. Professor Mitchell blew him nose in reply.
Magee turned and walked back down the street. On the corner she
stopped and took out the silver Put-Outer. She clicked it once, and
twelve balls of light sped back to their street lamps so that Privet
Drive glowed suddenly orange and she could make out a tabby cat slinking
around the corner at the other end of the street. She could just see the
bundle of blankets on the step of number four.
"Good luck, Grace," she murmured. She turned on her heel and with a swish
of her cloak, she was gone.
13
A breeze ruffled the neat hedges of Privet Drive, which lay silent and
tidy under the inky sky, the very last place you would expect
astonishing things to happen. Grace Potter rolled over inside her
blankets without waking up. One small hand closed on the letter beside
her and she slept on, not knowing she was special, not knowing she was
famous, not knowing she would be woken in a few hours' time by Mr.
Dursley's scream as he opened the front door to put out the milk
bottles, nor that she would spend the next few weeks being prodded and
pinched by her cousin Daffney... She couldn't know that at this very
moment, people meeting in secret all over the country were holding up
their glasses and saying in hushed voices: "To Grace Potter -- the girl
who lived!"
CHAPTER TWO
THE VANISHING GLASS
Nearly ten years had passed since the Dursleys had woken up to find
their niece on the front step, but Privet Drive had hardly changed at
all. The sun rose on the same tidy front gardens and lit up the brass
number four on the Dursleys' front door; it crept into their living
room, which was almost exactly the same as it had been on the night when
Mrs. Dursley had seen that fateful news report about the owls. Only the
photographs on the mantelpiece really showed how much time had passed.
Ten years ago, there had been lots of pictures of what looked like a
large pink beach ball wearing different-colored bonnets -- but Daffney
Dursley was no longer a baby, and now the photographs showed a large
blond girl riding her first bicycle, on a carousel at the fair, playing a
computer game with her mother, being hugged and kissed by her father.
The room held no sign at all that another girl lived in the house, too.
Yet Grace Potter was still there, asleep at the moment, but not for
long. Hers Uncle Phil was awake and it was him shrill voice that made
the first noise of the day.
"Up! Get up! Now!"
Grace woke with a start. Hers uncle rapped on the door again.
"Up!" he screeched. Grace heard him walking toward the kitchen and then
the sound of the frying pan being put on the stove. She rolled onto her
back and tried to remember the dream she had been having. It had been a
14
good one. There had been a flying motorcycle in it. She had a funny
feeling she'd had the same dream before.
Hers uncle was back outside the door.
"Are you up yet?" he demanded.
"Nearly," said Grace.
"Well, get a move on, I want you to look after the bacon. And don't you
dare let it burn, I want everything perfect on Daffy's birthday."
Grace groaned.
"What did you say?" her uncle snapped through the door.
"Nothing, nothing..."
Daffney's birthday -- how could she have forgotten? Grace got slowly out
of bed and started looking for socks. She found a pair under her bed and,
after pulling a spider off one of them, put them on. Grace was used to
spiders, because the cupboard under the stairs was full of them, and
that was where she slept.
When she was dressed she went down the hall into the kitchen. The table
was almost hidden beneath all Daffney's birthday presents. It looked as
though Daffney had gotten the new computer she wanted, not to mention the
second television and the racing bike. Exactly why Daffney wanted a
racing bike was a mystery to Grace, as Daffney was very fat and hated
exercise -- unless of course it involved punching somebody. Daffney's
favorite punching bag was Grace, but she couldn't often catch her. Grace
didn't look it, but she was very fast.
Perhaps it had something to do with living in a dark cupboard, but Grace
had always been small and skinny for her age. She looked even smaller and
skinnier than she really was because all she had to wear were old clothes
of Daffney's, and Daffney was about four times bigger than she was. Grace
had a thin face, knobbly knees, black hair, and bright green eyes. She
wore round glasses held together with a lot of Scotch tape because of
all the times Daffney had punched her on the nose. The only thing Grace
liked about her own appearance was a very thin scar on her forehead that
was shaped like a bolt of lightning. She had had it as long as she could
remember, and the first question she could ever remember asking her Uncle
15
Phil was how she had gotten it.
"In the car crash when your parents died," he had said. "And don't ask
questions."
Don't ask questions -- that was the first rule for a quiet life with the
Dursleys.
Aunt Viola entered the kitchen as Grace was turning over the bacon.
"Comb your hair!" she barked, by way of a morning greeting.
About once a week, Aunt Viola looked over the top of her newspaper and
shouted that Grace needed a haircut. Grace must have had more haircuts
than the rest of the girls in her class put
together, but it made no difference, her hair simply grew that way --
all over the place.
Grace was frying eggs by the time Daffney arrived in the kitchen with her
father. Daffney looked a lot like Aunt Viola. She had a large pink face,
not much neck, small, watery blue eyes, and thick blond hair that lay
smoothly on her thick, fat head. Uncle Phil often said that Daffney
looked like a baby angel -- Grace often said that Daffney looked like a
pig in a wig.
Grace put the plates of egg and bacon on the table, which was difficult
as there wasn't much room. Daffney, meanwhile, was counting her presents.
Hers face fell.
"Thirty-six," she said, looking up at her father and mother. "That's two
less than last year."
"Darling, you haven't counted Uncle Bob's present, see, it's here
under this big one from Mommy and Daddy."
"All right, thirty-seven then," said Daffney, going red in the face.
Grace, who could see a huge Daffney tantrum coming on, began wolfing down
her bacon as fast as possible in case Daffney turned the table over.
Uncle Phil obviously scented danger, too, because he said quickly,
"And we'll buy you another two presents while we're out today. How's
that, popkin? Two more presents. Is that all right''
16
Daffney thought for a moment. It looked like hard work. Finally she said
slowly, "So I'll have thirty ... thirty..."
"Thirty-nine, sweetums," said Uncle Phil.
"Oh." Daffney sat down heavily and grabbed the nearest parcel. "All right
then."
Aunt Viola chuckled. "Little tyke wants her money's worth, just like
her mother. 'Atta girl, Daffney!" She ruffled Daffney's hair.
At that moment the telephone rang and Uncle Phil went to answer it
while Grace and Aunt Viola watched Daffney unwrap the racing bike, a
video camera, a remote control airplane, sixteen new computer games, and
a VCR. She was ripping the paper off a gold wristwatch when Uncle Phil
came back from the telephone looking both angry and worried.
"Bad news, Viola," he said. "Mr. Figg's broken him leg. He can't
take her." He jerked him head in Grace's direction.
Daffney's mouth fell open in horror, but Grace's heart gave a leap. Every
year on Daffney's birthday, her parents took her and a friend out for the
day, to adventure parks, hamburger restaurants, or the movies. Every
year, Grace was left behind with Mr. Figg, a mad old gentleman who lived two
streets away. Grace hated it there. The whole house smelled of cabbage
and Mr. Figg made her look at photographs of all the cats he'd ever
owned.
"Now what?" said Uncle Phil, looking furiously at Grace as though she'd
planned this. Grace knew she ought to feel sorry that Mr. Figg had
broken him leg, but it wasn't easy when she reminded herself it would be
a whole year before she had to look at Tibbles, Snowy, Mrs. Paws, and
Tufty again.
"We could phone Bob," Aunt Viola suggested.
"Don't be silly, Viola, he hates the girl."
The Dursleys often spoke about Grace like this, as though she wasn't
there -- or rather, as though she was something very nasty that couldn't
understand them, like a slug.
17
"What about what's-him-name, your friend -- Yvonne?"
"On vacation in Majorca," snapped Uncle Phil.
"You could just leave me here," Grace put in hopefully (she'd be able to
watch what she wanted on television for a change and maybe even have a go
on Daffney's computer).
Uncle Phil looked as though he'd just swallowed a lemon.
"And come back and find the house in ruins?" he snarled.
"I won't blow up the house," said Grace, but they weren't listening.
"I suppose we could take her to the zoo," said Uncle Phil slowly, "...
and leave her in the car...."
"That car's new, she's not sitting in it alone...."
Daffney began to cry loudly. In fact, she wasn't really crying -- it had
been years since she'd really cried -- but she knew that if she screwed up
her face and wailed, her father would give her anything she wanted.
"Dinky Duddydums, don't cry, Mummy won't let her spoil your special
day!" he cried, flinging him arms around her.
"I... don't... want... her... t-t-to come!" Daffney yelled between huge,
pretend sobs. "She always sp- spoils everything!" She shot Grace a nasty
grin through the gap in her father's arms.
Just then, the doorbell rang -- "Oh, good Lord, they're here!" said Uncle
Phil frantically -- and a moment later, Daffney's best friend, Piers
Polkiss, walked in with her father. Piers was a scrawny girl with a face
like a rat. She was usually the one who held people's arms behind their
backs while Daffney hit them. Daffney stopped pretending to cry at once.
Half an hour later, Grace, who couldn't believe her luck, was sitting in
the back of the Dursleys' car with Piers and Daffney, on the way to the
zoo for the first time in her life. Hers uncle and aunt hadn't been able
to think of anything else to do with her, but before they'd left, Aunt
Viola had taken Grace aside.
"I'm warning you," she had said, putting her large purple face right up
18
close to Grace's, "I'm warning you now, girl -- any funny business,
anything at all -- and you'll be in that cupboard from now until
Christmas."
"I'm not going to do anything," said Grace, "honestly..
But Aunt Viola didn't believe her. No one ever did.
The problem was, strange things often happened around Grace and it was
just no good telling the Dursleys she didn't make them happen.
Once, Uncle Phil, tired of Grace coming back from the barbers looking
as though she hadn't been at all, had taken a pair of kitchen scissors
and cut her hair so short she was almost bald except for her bangs, which
he left "to hide that horrible scar." Daffney had laughed herself silly
at Grace, who spent a sleepless night imagining school the next day,
where she was already laughed at for her baggy clothes and taped glasses.
Next morning, however, she had gotten up to find her hair exactly as it
had been before Uncle Phil had sheared it off She had been given a week
in her cupboard for this, even though she had tried to explain that she
couldn't explain how it had grown back so quickly.
Another time, Uncle Phil had been trying to force her into a revolting
old sweater of Daffney's (brown with orange puff balls) -- The harder he
tried to pull it over her head, the smaller it seemed to become, until
finally it might have fitted a hand puppet, but certainly wouldn't fit
Grace. Uncle Phil had decided it must have shrunk in the wash and, to
her great relief, Grace wasn't punished.
On the other hand, she'd gotten into terrible trouble for being found on
the roof of the school kitchens. Daffney's gang had been chasing her as
usual when, as much to Grace's surprise as anyone else's, there she was
sitting on the chimney. The Dursleys had received a very angry letter
from Grace's headmaster telling them Grace had been climbing school
buildings. But all she'd tried to do (as she shouted at Aunt Viola
through the locked door of her cupboard) was jump behind the big trash
cans outside the kitchen doors. Grace supposed that the wind must have
caught her in mid- jump.
But today, nothing was going to go wrong. It was even worth being with
Daffney and Piers to be spending the day somewhere that wasn't school,
her cupboard, or Mr. Figg's cabbage-smelling living room.
19
While she drove, Aunt Viola complained to Uncle Phil. She liked to
complain about things: people at work, Grace, the council, Grace, the
bank, and Grace were just a few of her favorite subjects. This morning,
it was motorcycles.
"... roaring along like maniacs, the young hoodlums," she said, as a
motorcycle overtook them.
I had a dream about a motorcycle," said Grace, remembering suddenly. "It
was flying."
Aunt Viola nearly crashed into the car in front. She turned right
around in her seat and yelled at Grace, her face like a gigantic beet
with a chin: "MOTORCYCLES DON'T FLY!"
Daffney and Piers sniggered.
I know they don't," said Grace. "It was only a dream."
But she wished she hadn't said anything. If there was one thing the
Dursleys hated even more than her asking questions, it was her talking
about anything acting in a way it shouldn't, no matter if it was in a
dream or even a cartoon -- they seemed to think she might get dangerous
ideas.
It was a very sunny Saturday and the zoo was crowded with families. The
Dursleys bought Daffney and Piers large chocolate ice creams at the
entrance and then, because the smiling gentleman in the van had asked Grace
what she wanted before they could hurry her away, they bought her a cheap
lemon ice pop. It wasn't bad, either, Grace thought, licking it as they
watched a gorilla scratching its head who looked remarkably like Daffney,
except that it wasn't blond.
Grace had the best morning she'd had in a long time. She was careful to
walk a little way apart from the Dursleys so that Daffney and Piers, who
were starting to get bored with the animals by lunchtime, wouldn't fall
back on their favorite hobby of hitting her. They ate in the zoo
restaurant, and when Daffney had a tantrum because her knickerbocker
glory didn't have enough ice cream on top, Aunt Viola bought her
another one and Grace was allowed to finish the first.
Grace felt, afterward, that she should have known it was all too good to
last.
20
After lunch they went to the reptile house. It was cool and dark in
there, with lit windows all along the walls. Behind the glass, all sorts
of lizards and snakes were crawling and slithering over bits of wood and
stone. Daffney and Piers wanted to see huge, poisonous cobras and thick,
woman-crushing pythons. Daffney quickly found the largest snake in the
place. It could have wrapped its body twice around Aunt Viola's car
and crushed it into a trash can -- but at the moment it didn't look in
the mood. In fact, it was fast asleep.
Daffney stood with her nose pressed against the glass, staring at the
glistening brown coils.
"Make it move," she whined at her mother. Aunt Viola tapped on the
glass, but the snake didn't budge.
"Do it again," Daffney ordered. Aunt Viola rapped the glass smartly
with her knuckles, but the snake just snoozed on.
"This is boring," Daffney moaned. She shuffled away.
Grace moved in front of the tank and looked intently at the snake. She
wouldn't have been surprised if it had died of boredom itself -- no
company except stupid people drumming their fingers on the glass trying
to disturb it all day long. It was worse than having a cupboard as a
bedroom, where the only visitor was Uncle Phil hammering on the door
to wake you up; at least she got to visit the rest of the house.
The snake suddenly opened its beady eyes. Slowly, very slowly, it raised
its head until its eyes were on a level with Grace's.
It winked.
Grace stared. Then she looked quickly around to see if anyone was
watching. They weren't. She looked back at the snake and winked, too.
The snake jerked its head toward Aunt Viola and Daffney, then raised
its eyes to the ceiling. It gave Grace a look that said quite plainly:
"I get that all the time.
"I know," Grace murmured through the glass, though she wasn't sure the
snake could hear her. "It must be really annoying."
21
The snake nodded vigorously.
"Where do you come from, anyway?" Grace asked.
The snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to the glass. Grace
peered at it.
Boa Constrictor, Brazil.
"Was it nice there?"
The boa constrictor jabbed its tail at the sign again and Grace read on:
This specimen was bred in the zoo. "Oh, I see -- so you've never been to
Brazil?"
As the snake shook its head, a deafening shout behind Grace made both of
them jump.
"DUDLEY! MR. DURSLEY! COME AND LOOK AT THIS SNAKE! YOU
WON'T BELIEVE
WHAT IT'S DOING!"
Daffney came waddling toward them as fast as she could.
"Out of the way, you," she said, punching Grace in the ribs. Caught by
surprise, Grace fell hard on the concrete floor. What came next happened
so fast no one saw how it happened -- one second, Piers and Daffney were
leaning right up close to the glass, the next, they had leapt back with
howls of horror.
Grace sat up and gasped; the glass front of the boa constrictor's tank
had vanished. The great snake was uncoiling itself rapidly, slithering
out onto the floor. People throughout the reptile house screamed and
started running for the exits.
As the snake slid swiftly past her, Grace could have sworn a low,
hissing voice said, "Brazil, here I come.... Thanksss, amigo."
The keeper of the reptile house was in shock.
"But the glass," she kept saying, "where did the glass go?"
22
The zoo director herself made Uncle Phil a cup of strong, sweet tea
while she apologized over and over again. Piers and Daffney could only
gibber. As far as Grace had seen, the snake hadn't done anything except
snap playfully at their heels as it passed, but by the time they were
all back in Aunt Viola's car, Daffney was telling them how it had
nearly bitten off her leg, while Piers was swearing it had tried to
squeeze her to death. But worst of all, for Grace at least, was Piers
calming down enough to say, "Grace was talking to it, weren't you,
Grace?"
Aunt Viola waited until Piers was safely out of the house before
starting on Grace. She was so angry she could hardly speak. She managed to
say, "Go -- cupboard -- stay -- no meals," before she collapsed into a
chair, and Uncle Phil had to run and get her a large brandy.
Grace lay in her dark cupboard much later, wishing she had a watch. She
didn't know what time it was and she couldn't be sure the Dursleys were
asleep yet. Until they were, she couldn't risk sneaking to the kitchen
for some food.
She'd lived with the Dursleys almost ten years, ten miserable years, as
long as she could remember, ever since she'd been a baby and her parents
had died in that car crash. She couldn't remember being in the car when
her parents had died. Sometimes, when she strained her memory during long
hours in her cupboard, she came up with a strange vision: a blinding
flash of green light and a burn- ing pain on her forehead. This, she
supposed, was the crash, though she couldn't imagine where all the green
light came from. She couldn't remember her parents at all. Hers uncle and
aunt never spoke about them, and of course she was forbidden to ask
questions. There were no photographs of them in the house.
When she had been younger, Grace had dreamed and dreamed of some unknown
relation coming to take her away, but it had never happened; the
Dursleys were her only family. Yet sometimes she thought (or maybe hoped)
that strangers in the street seemed to know her. Very strange strangers
they were, too. A tiny woman in a violet top hat had bowed to her once
while out shopping with Uncle Phil and Daffney. After asking Grace
furiously if she knew the woman, Uncle Phil had rushed them out of the
shop without buying anything. A wild-looking old man dressed all in
green had waved merrily at her once on a bus. A bald woman in a very long
purple coat had actually shaken her hand in the street the other day and
then walked away without a word. The weirdest thing about all these
people was the way they seemed to vanish the second Grace tried to get a
23
closer look.
At school, Grace had no one. Everybody knew that Daffney's gang hated
that odd Grace Potter in her baggy old clothes and broken glasses, and
nobody liked to disagree with Daffney's gang.
CHAPTER THREE
THE LETTERS FROM NO ONE
The escape of the Brazilian boa constrictor earned Grace her
longest-ever punishment. By the time she was allowed out of her cupboard
again, the summer holidays had started and Daffney had already broken her
new video camera, crashed her remote control airplane, and, first time
out on her racing bike, knocked down old Mr. Figg as he crossed Privet
Drive on him crutches.
Grace was glad school was over, but there was no escaping Daffney's gang,
who visited the house every single day. Piers, Dennis, Malcolm, and
Gordon were all big and stupid, but as Daffney was the biggest and
stupidest of the lot, she was the leader. The rest of them were all quite
happy to join in Daffney's favorite sport: Grace Hunting.
This was why Grace spent as much time as possible out of the house,
wandering around and thinking about the end of the holidays, where she
could see a tiny ray of hope. When September came she would be going off
to secondary school and, for the first time in her life, she wouldn't be
with Daffney. Daffney had been accepted at Aunt Viola's old private
school, Smeltings. Piers Polkiss was going there too. Grace, on the
other hand, was going to Stonewall High, the local public school. Daffney
thought this was very funny.
"They stuff people's heads down the toilet the first day at Stonewall,"
she told Grace. "Want to come upstairs and practice?"
"No, thanks," said Grace. "The poor toilet's never had anything as
horrible as your head down it -- it might be sick." Then she ran, before
Daffney could work out what she'd said.
One day in July, Uncle Phil took Daffney to London to buy her Smeltings
uniform, leaving Grace at Mr. Figg's. Mr. Figg wasn 't as bad as
usual. It turned out he'd broken him leg tripping over one of him cats,
24
and he didn't seem quite as fond of them as before. He let Grace watch
television and gave her a bit of chocolate cake that tasted as though
he'd had it for several years.
That evening, Daffney paraded around the living room for the family in
her brand-new uniform. Smeltings' girls wore maroon tailcoats, orange
knickerbockers, and flat straw hats called boaters. They also carried
knobbly sticks, used for hitting each other while the teachers weren't
looking. This was supposed to be good training for later life.
As she looked at Daffney in her new knickerbockers, Aunt Viola said
gruffly that it was the proudest moment of her life. Uncle Phil burst
into tears and said he couldn't believe it was him Ickle Dudleykins, she
looked so handsome and grown-up. Grace didn't trust herself to speak. She
thought two of her ribs might already have cracked from trying not to
laugh.
There was a horrible smell in the kitchen the next morning when Grace
went in for breakfast. It seemed to be coming from a large metal tub in
the sink. She went to have a look. The tub was full of what looked like
dirty rags swimming in gray water.
"What's this?" she asked Uncle Phil. Him lips tightened as they always
did if she dared to ask a question.
"Your new school uniform," he said.
Grace looked in the bowl again.
"Oh," she said, "I didn't realize it had to be so wet."
"DotA be stupid," snapped Uncle Phil. "I'm dyeing some of Daffney's old
things gray for you. It'll look just like everyone else's when I've
finished."
Grace seriously doubted this, but thought it best not to argue. She sat
down at the table and tried not to think about how she was going to look
on her first day at Stonewall High -- like she was wearing bits of old
elephant skin, probably.
Daffney and Aunt Viola came in, both with wrinkled noses because of the
smell from Grace's new uniform. Aunt Viola opened her newspaper as
usual and Daffney banged her Smelting stick, which she carried everywhere,
25
on the table.
They heard the click of the mail slot and flop of letters on the
doormat.
"Get the mail, Daffney," said Aunt Viola from behind her paper.
"Make Grace get it."
"Get the mail, Grace."
"Make Daffney get it."
"Poke her with your Smelting stick, Daffney."
Grace dodged the Smelting stick and went to get the mail. Three things
lay on the doormat: a postcard from Aunt Viola's brother Bob, who was
vacationing on the Isle of Wight, a brown envelope that looked like a
bill, and -- a letter for Grace.
Grace picked it up and stared at it, her heart twanging like a giant
elastic band. No one, ever, in her whole life, had written to her. Who
would? She had no friends, no other relatives -- she didn't belong to the
library, so she'd never even got rude notes asking for books back. Yet
here it was, a letter, addressed so plainly there could be no mistake:
Mrs. H. Potter
The Cupboard under the Stairs
4 Privet Drive
Little Whinging
Surrey
The envelope was thick and heavy, made of yellowish parchment, and the
address was written in emerald-green ink. There was no stamp.
Turning the envelope over, her hand trembling, Grace saw a purple wax
seal bearing a coat of arms; a lion, an eagle, a badger, and a snake
surrounding a large letter H.
26
"Hurry up, girl!" shouted Aunt Viola from the kitchen. "What are you
doing, checking for letter bombs?" She chuckled at her own joke.
Grace went back to the kitchen, still staring at her letter. She handed
Aunt Viola the bill and the postcard, sat down, and slowly began to
open the yellow envelope.
Aunt Viola ripped open the bill, snorted in disgust, and flipped over
the postcard.
"Bob's ill," she informed Uncle Phil. "Ate a funny whelk. --."
"Dad!" said Daffney suddenly. "Dad, Grace's got something!"
Grace was on the point of unfolding her letter, which was written on the
same heavy parchment as the envelope, when it was jerked sharply out of
her hand by Aunt Viola.
"That's mine!" said Grace, trying to snatch it back.
"Who'd be writing to you?" sneered Aunt Viola, shaking the letter open
with one hand and glancing at it. Hers face went from red to green faster
than a set of traffic lights. And it didn't stop there. Within seconds
it was the grayish white of old porridge.
"P-P-Phil!" she gasped.
Daffney tried to grab the letter to read it, but Aunt Viola held it
high out of her reach. Uncle Phil took it curiously and read the first
line. For a moment it looked as though he might faint. He clutched him
throat and made a choking noise.
"Viola! Oh my goodness -- Viola!"
They stared at each other, seeming to have forgotten that Grace and
Daffney were still in the room. Daffney wasn't used to being ignored. She
gave her mother a sharp tap on the head with her Smelting stick.
"I want to read that letter," she said loudly. want to read it," said
Grace furiously, "as it's mine."
"Get out, both of you," croaked Aunt Viola, stuffing the letter back
inside its envelope.
27
Grace didn't move.
I WANT MY LETTER!" she shouted.
"Let me see it!" demanded Daffney.
"OUT!" roared Aunt Viola, and she took both Grace and Daffney by the
scruffs of their necks and threw them into the hall, slamming the
kitchen door behind them. Grace and Daffney promptly had a furious but
silent fight over who would listen at the keyhole; Daffney won, so Grace,
her glasses dangling from one ear, lay flat on her stomach to listen at
the crack between door and floor.
"Viola," Uncle Phil was saying in a quivering voice, "look at the
address -- how could they possibly know where she sleeps? You don't think
they're watching the house?"
"Watching -- spying -- might be following us," muttered Aunt Viola
wildly.
"But what should we do, Viola? Should we write back? Tell them we don't
want --"
Grace could see Aunt Viola's shiny black shoes pacing up and down the
kitchen.
"No," she said finally. "No, we'll ignore it. If they don't get an
answer... Yes, that's best... we won't do anything....
"But --"
"I'm not having one in the house, Phil! Didn't we swear when we took
her in we'd stamp out that dangerous nonsense?"
That evening when she got back from work, Aunt Viola did something she'd
never done before; she visited Grace in her cupboard.
"Where's my letter?" said Grace, the moment Aunt Viola had squeezed
through the door. "Who's writing to me?"
"No one. it was addressed to you by mistake," said Aunt Viola shortly.
"I have burned it."
28
"It was not a mistake," said Grace angrily, "it had my cupboard on it."
"SILENCE!" yelled Aunt Viola, and a couple of spiders fell from the
ceiling. She took a few deep breaths and then forced her face into a
smile, which looked quite painful.
"Er -- yes, Grace -- about this cupboard. Your uncle and I have been
thinking... you're really getting a bit big for it... we think it might
be nice if you moved into Daffney's second bedroom.
"Why?" said Grace.
"Don't ask questions!" snapped her aunt. "Take this stuff upstairs,
now."
The Dursleys' house had four bedrooms: one for Aunt Viola and Uncle
Phil, one for visitors (usually Aunt Viola's brother, Bob), one
where Daffney slept, and one where Daffney kept all the toys and things
that wouldn't fit into her first bedroom. It only took Grace one trip
upstairs to move everything she owned from the cupboard to this room. She
sat down on the bed and stared around her. Nearly everything in here was
broken. The month-old video camera was lying on top of a small, working
tank Daffney had once driven over the next door neighbor's dog; in the
corner was Daffney's first-ever television set, which she'd put her foot
through when her favorite program had been canceled; there was a large
birdcage, which had once held a parrot that Daffney had swapped at school
for a real air rifle, which was up on a shelf with the end all bent
because Daffney had sat on it. Other shelves were full of books. They
were the only things in the room that looked as though they'd never been
touched.
From downstairs came the sound of Daffney bawling at her father, I don't
want her in there... I need that room... make her get out...."
Grace sighed and stretched out on the bed. Yesterday she'd have given
anything to be up here. Today she'd rather be back in her cupboard with
that letter than up here without it.
Next morning at breakfast, everyone was rather quiet. Daffney was in
shock. She'd screamed, whacked her mother with her Smelting stick, been
sick on purpose, kicked her father, and thrown her tortoise through the
greenhouse roof, and she still didn't have her room back. Grace was
29
thinking about this time yesterday and bitterly wishing she'd opened the
letter in the hall. Aunt Viola and Uncle Phil kept looking at each
other darkly.
When the mail arrived, Aunt Viola, who seemed to be trying to be nice
to Grace, made Daffney go and get it. They heard her banging things with
her Smelting stick all the way down the hall. Then she shouted, "There's
another one! 'Mrs. H. Potter, The Smallest Bedroom, 4 Privet Drive --'"
With a strangled cry, Aunt Viola leapt from her seat and ran down the
hall, Grace right behind her. Aunt Viola had to wrestle Daffney to the
ground to get the letter from her, which was made difficult by the fact
that Grace had grabbed Aunt Viola around the neck from behind. After a
minute of confused fighting, in which everyone got hit a lot by the
Smelting stick, Aunt Viola straightened up, gasping for breath, with
Grace's letter clutched in her hand.
"Go to your cupboard -- I mean, your bedroom," she wheezed at Grace.
"Daffney -- go -- just go."
Grace walked round and round her new room. Someone knew she had moved out
of her cupboard and they seemed to know she hadn't received her first
letter. Surely that meant they'd try again? And this time she'd make sure
they didn't fail. She had a plan.
The repaired alarm clock rang at six o'clock the next morning. Grace
turned it off quickly and dressed silently. She mustn't wake the
Dursleys. She stole downstairs without turning on any of the lights.
She was going to wait for the postman on the corner of Privet Drive and
get the letters for number four first. Hers heart hammered as she crept
across the dark hall toward the front door --
Grace leapt into the air; she'd trodden on something big and squashy on
the doormat -- something alive!
Lights clicked on upstairs and to her horror Grace realized that the
big, squashy something had been her aunt's face. Aunt Viola had been
lying at the foot of the front door in a sleeping bag, clearly making
sure that Grace didn't do exactly what she'd been trying to do. She
shouted at Grace for about half an hour and then told her to go and make
a cup of tea. Grace shuffled miserably off into the kitchen and by the
time she got back, the mail had arrived, right into Aunt Viola's lap.
30
Grace could see three letters addressed in green ink.
I want --" she began, but Aunt Viola was tearing the letters into
pieces before her eyes. Aunt Viola didnt go to work that day. She
stayed at home and nailed up the mail slot.
"See," she explained to Uncle Phil through a mouthful of nails, "if
they can't deliver them they'll just give up."
"I'm not sure that'll work, Viola."
"Oh, these people's minds work in strange ways, Phil, they're not
like you and me," said Aunt Viola, trying to knock in a nail with the
piece of fruitcake Uncle Phil had just brought her.
On Friday, no less than twelve letters arrived for Grace. As they
couldn't go through the mail slot they had been pushed under the door,
slotted through the sides, and a few even forced through the small
window in the downstairs bathroom.
Aunt Viola stayed at home again. After burning all the letters, she got
out a hammer and nails and boarded up the cracks around the front and
back doors so no one could go out. She hummed "Tiptoe Through the Tulips"
as she worked, and jumped at small noises.
On Saturday, things began to get out of hand. Twenty-four letters to
Grace found their way into the house, rolled up and hidden inside each
of the two dozen eggs that their very confused milkman had handed Uncle
Phil through the living room window. While Aunt Viola made furious
telephone calls to the post office and the dairy trying to find someone
to complain to, Uncle Phil shredded the letters in him food processor.
"Who on earth wants to talk to you this badly?" Daffney asked Grace in
amazement.
On Sunday morning, Aunt Viola sat down at the breakfast table looking
tired and rather ill, but happy.
"No post on Sundays," she reminded them cheerfully as she spread marmalade
on her newspapers, "no damn letters today --"
Something came whizzing down the kitchen chimney as she spoke and caught
her sharply on the back of the head. Next moment, thirty or forty
31
letters came pelting out of the fireplace like bullets. The Dursleys
ducked, but Grace leapt into the air trying to catch one.
"Out! OUT!"
Aunt Viola seized Grace around the waist and threw her into the hall.
When Uncle Phil and Daffney had run out with their arms over their
faces, Aunt Viola slammed the door shut. They could hear the letters
still streaming into the room, bouncing off the walls and floor.
"That does it," said Aunt Viola, trying to speak calmly but pulling
great tufts out of her chin at the same time. I want you all back
here in five minutes ready to leave. We're going away. Just pack some
clothes. No arguments!"
She looked so dangerous with half her chin missing that no one dared
argue. Ten minutes later they had wrenched their way through the
boarded-up doors and were in the car, speeding toward the highway.
Daffney was sniffling in the back seat; her mother had hit her round the
head for holding them up while she tried to pack her television, VCR, and
computer in her sports bag.
They drove. And they drove. Even Uncle Phil didn't dare ask where they
were going. Every now and then Aunt Viola would take a sharp turn and
drive in the opposite direction for a while. "Shake'em off... shake 'em
off," she would mutter whenever she did this.
They didn't stop to eat or drink all day. By nightfall Daffney was
howling. She'd never had such a bad day in her life. She was hungry, she'd
missed five television programs she'd wanted to see, and she'd never gone
so long without blowing up an alien on her computer.
Aunt Viola stopped at last outside a gloomy-looking hotel on the
outskirts of a big city. Daffney and Grace shared a room with twin beds
and damp, musty sheets. Daffney snored but Grace stayed awake, sitting on
the windowsill, staring down at the lights of passing cars and
wondering....
They ate stale cornflakes and cold tinned tomatoes on toast for
breakfast the next day. They had just finished when the owner of the
hotel came over to their table.
"'Scuse me, but is one of you Mrs. H. Potter? Only I got about an 'undred
32
of these at the front desk."
He held up a letter so they could read the green ink address:
Mrs. H. Potter
Room 17
Railview Hotel
Cokeworth
Grace made a grab for the letter but Aunt Viola knocked her hand out
of the way. The man stared.
"I'll take them," said Aunt Viola, standing up quickly and following
him from the dining room.
Wouldn't it be better just to go home, dear?" Uncle Phil suggested
timidly, hours later, but Aunt Viola didn't seem to hear him. Exactly
what she was looking for, none of them knew. She drove them into the
middle of a forest, got out, looked around, shook her head, got back in
the car, and off they went again. The same thing happened in the middle
of a plowed field, halfway across a suspension bridge, and at the top of
a multilevel parking garage.
"Daddy's gone mad, hasn't she?" Daffney asked Uncle Phil dully late that
afternoon. Aunt Viola had parked at the coast, locked them all inside
the car, and disappeared.
It started to rain. Great drops beat on the roof of the car. Dud ley
sniveled.
"It's Monday," she told her father. "The Great Humberto's on tonight. I
want to stay somewhere with a television. "
Monday. This reminded Grace of something. If it was Monday -- and you
could usually count on Daffney to know the days the week, because of
television -- then tomorrow, Tuesday, was Grace's eleventh birthday. Of
course, her birthdays were never exactly fun -- last year, the Dursleys
had given her a coat hanger and a pair of Aunt Viola's old socks.
Still, you weren't eleven every day.
33
Aunt Viola was back and she was smiling. She was also carrying a long,
thin package and didn't answer Uncle Phil when he asked what she'd
bought.
"Found the perfect place!" she said. "Come on! Everyone out!"
It was very cold outside the car. Aunt Viola was pointing at what
looked like a large rock way out at sea. Perched on top of the rock was
the most miserable little shack you could imagine. One thing was
certain, there was no television in there.
"Storm forecast for tonight!" said Aunt Viola gleefully, clapping her
hands together. "And this lady's kindly agreed to lend us her
boat!"
A toothless old woman came ambling up to them, pointing, with a rather
wicked grin, at an old rowboat bobbing in the iron-gray water below
them.
"I've already got us some rations," said Aunt Viola, "so all aboard!"
It was freezing in the boat. Icy sea spray and rain crept down their
necks and a chilly wind whipped their faces. After what seemed like
hours they reached the rock, where Aunt Viola, slipping and sliding,
led the way to the broken-down house.
The inside was horrible; it smelled strongly of seaweed, the wind
whistled through the gaps in the wooden walls, and the fireplace was
damp and empty. There were only two rooms.
Aunt Viola's rations turned out to be a bag of chips each and four
bananas. She tried to start a fire but the empty chip bags just smoked
and shriveled up.
"Could do with some of those letters now, eh?" she said cheerfully.
She was in a very good mood. Obviously she thought nobody stood a chance
of reaching them here in a storm to deliver mail. Grace privately
agreed, though the thought didn't cheer her up at all.
As night fell, the promised storm blew up around them. Spray from the
high waves splattered the walls of the hut and a fierce wind rattled the
filthy windows. Uncle Phil found a few moldy blankets in the second
34
room and made up a bed for Daffney on the moth-eaten sofa. He and Aunt
Viola went off to the lumpy bed next door, and Grace was left to find
the softest bit of floor she could and to curl up under the thinnest,
most ragged blanket.
The storm raged more and more ferociously as the night went on. Grace
couldn't sleep. She shivered and turned over, trying to get comfortable,
her stomach rumbling with hunger. Daffney's snores were drowned by the
low rolls of thunder that started near midnight. The lighted dial of
Daffney's watch, which was dangling over the edge of the sofa on her fat
wrist, told Grace she'd be eleven in ten minutes' time. She lay and
watched her birthday tick nearer, wondering if the Dursleys would
remember at all, wondering where the letter writer was now.
Five minutes to go. Grace heard something creak outside. She hoped the
roof wasn't going to fall in, although she might be warmer if it did.
Four minutes to go. Maybe the house in Privet Drive would be so full of
letters when they got back that she'd be able to steal one somehow.
Three minutes to go. Was that the sea, slapping hard on the rock like
that? And (two minutes to go) what was that funny crunching noise? Was
the rock crumbling into the sea?
One minute to go and she'd be eleven. Thirty seconds... twenty ... ten...
nine -- maybe she'd wake Daffney up, just to annoy her -- three... two...
one...
BOOM.
The whole shack shivered and Grace sat bolt upright, staring at the
door. Someone was outside, knocking to come in.
CHAPTER FOUR
THE KEEPER OF THE KEYS
BOOM. They knocked again. Daffney jerked awake. "Where's the cannon?" she
said stupidly.
There was a crash behind them and Aunt Viola came skidding into the
room. She was holding a rifle in her hands -- now they knew what had been
in the long, thin package she had brought with them.
35
"Who's there?" she shouted. "I warn you -- I'm armed!"
There was a pause. Then --
SMASH!
The door was hit with such force that it swung clean off its hinges and
with a deafening crash landed flat on the floor.
A giant of a woman was standing in the doorway. Hers face was almost
completely hidden by a long, shaggy mane of hair and a wild, tangled
chin, but you could make out her eyes, glinting like black beetles
under all the hair.
The giant squeezed her way into the hut, stooping so that her head just
brushed the ceiling. She bent down, picked up the door, and fitted it
easily back into its frame. The noise of the storm outside dropped a
little. She turned to look at them all.
"Couldn't make us a cup o' tea, could yeh? It's not been an easy
journey..."
She strode over to the sofa where Daffney sat frozen with fear.
"Budge up, yeh great lump," said the stranger.
Daffney squeaked and ran to hide behind her father, who was crouching,
terrified, behind Aunt Viola.
"An' here's Grace!" said the giant.
Grace looked up into the fierce, wild, shadowy face and saw that the
beetle eyes were crinkled in a smile.
"Las' time I saw you, you was only a baby," said the giant. "Yeh look a
lot like yet dad, but yeh've got yet mom's eyes."
Aunt Viola made a funny rasping noise.
I demand that you leave at once, sit!" she said. "You are breaking and
entering!"
36
"Ah, shut up, Dursley, yeh great prune," said the giant; she reached over
the back of the sofa, jerked the gun out of Aunt Viola's hands, bent
it into a knot as easily as if it had been made of rubber, and threw it
into a corner of the room.
Aunt Viola made another funny noise, like a mouse being trodden on.
"Anyway -- Grace," said the giant, turning her back on the Dursleys, "a
very happy birthday to yeh. Got summat fer yeh here -- I mighta sat on
it at some point, but it'll taste all right."
From an inside pocket of her black overcoat she pulled a slightly
squashed box. Grace opened it with trembling fingers. Inside was a
large, sticky chocolate cake with Happy Birthday Grace written on it in
green icing.
Grace looked up at the giant. She meant to say thank you, but the words
got lost on the way to her mouth, and what she said instead was, "Who are
you?"
The giant chuckled.
"True, I haven't introduced meself. Rubeus Hadley, Keeper of Keys and
Grounds at Hogwarts."
She held out an enormous hand and shook Grace's whole arm.
"What about that tea then, eh?" she said, rubbing her hands together.
"I'd not say no ter summat stronger if yeh've got it, mind."
Hers eyes fell on the empty grate with the shriveled chip bags in it and
she snorted. She bent down over the fireplace; they couldn't see what she
was doing but when she drew back a second later, there was a roaring fire
there. It filled the whole damp hut with flickering light and Grace felt
the warmth wash over her as though she'd sunk into a hot bath.
The giant sat back down on the sofa, which sagged under her weight, and
began taking all sorts of things out of the pockets of her coat: a
copper kettle, a squashy package of sausages, a poker, a teapot, several
chipped mugs, and a bottle of some amber liquid that she took a swig from
before starting to make tea. Soon the hut was full of the sound and
smell of sizzling sausage. Nobody said a thing while the giant was
working, but as she slid the first six fat, juicy, slightly burnt
37
sausages from the poker, Daffney fidgeted a little. Aunt Viola said
sharply, "Don't touch anything she gives you, Daffney."
The giant chuckled darkly.
"Yet great puddin' of a daughter don' need fattenin' anymore, Dursley, don'
worry."
She passed the sausages to Grace, who was so hungry she had never tasted
anything so wonderful, but she still couldn't take her eyes off the
giant. Finally, as nobody seemed about to explain anything, she said,
"I'm sorry, but I still don't really know who you are."
The giant took a gulp of tea and wiped her mouth with the back of her
hand.
"Call me Hadley," she said, "everyone does. An' like I told yeh, I'm
Keeper of Keys at Hogwarts -- yeh'll know all about Hogwarts, o' course.
"Er -- no," said Grace.
Hadley looked shocked.
"Sorry," Grace said quickly.
"Sony?" barked Hadley, turning to stare at the Dursleys, who shrank back
into the shadows. "It' s them as should be sorry! I knew yeh weren't
gettin' yer letters but I never thought yeh wouldn't even know abou'
Hogwarts, fer cryin' out loud! Did yeh never wonder where yet parents
learned it all?"
"All what?" asked Grace.
"ALL WHAT?" Hadley thundered. "Now wait jus' one second!"
She had leapt to her feet. In her anger she seemed to fill the whole hut.
The Dursleys were cowering against the wall.
"Do you mean ter tell me," she growled at the Dursleys, "that this girl --
this girl! -- knows nothin' abou' -- about ANYTHING?"
Grace thought this was going a bit far. She had been to school, after
all, and her marks weren't bad.
38
"I know some things," she said. "I can, you know, do math and stuff." But
Hadley simply waved her hand and said, "About our world, I mean. Your
world. My world. Yer parents' world."
"What world?"
Hadley looked as if she was about to explode.
"DURSLEY!" she boomed.
Aunt Viola, who had gone very pale, whispered something that sounded
like "Mimblewimble." Hadley stared wildly at Grace.
"But yeh must know about yet mom and dad," she said. "I mean, they're
famous. You're famous."
"What? My -- my mom and dad weren't famous, were they?"
"Yeh don' know... yeh don' know..." Hadley ran her fingers through her
hair, fixing Grace with a bewildered stare.
"Yeh don' know what yeh are?" she said finally.
Aunt Viola suddenly found her voice.
"Stop!" she commanded. "Stop right there, sit! I forbid you to tell the
girl anything!"
A braver woman than Viola Dursley would have quailed under the furious
look Hadley now gave her; when Hadley spoke, her every syllable trembled
with rage.
"You never told her? Never told her what was in the letter Magee
left fer her? I was there! I saw Magee leave it, Dursley! An'
you've kept it from her all these years?"
"Kept what from me?" said Grace eagerly.
"STOP! I FORBID YOU!" yelled Aunt Viola in panic.
Uncle Phil gave a gasp of horror.
39
"Ah, go boil yet heads, both of yeh," said Hadley. "Grace -- yet a
wizard."
There was silence inside the hut. Only the sea and the whistling wind
could be heard.
"-- a what?" gasped Grace.
"A wizard, o' course," said Hadley, sitting back down on the sofa, which
groaned and sank even lower, "an' a thumpin' good'un, I'd say, once
yeh've been trained up a bit. With a mum an' dad like yours, what else
would yeh be? An' I reckon it's abou' time yeh read yer letter."
Grace stretched out her hand at last to take the yellowish envelope,
addressed in emerald green to Mrs. H. Potter, The Floor, Hut-on-the-Rock,
The Sea. She pulled out the letter and read:
HOGWARTS SCHOOL of WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY
Headmaster: ALBUS DUMBLEDORE
(Order of Merlin, First Class, Grand Sorc., Chf. Warlock, Supreme
Mugwump, International Confed. of Wizards)
Dear Mrs. Potter,
We are pleased to inform you that you have been accepted at Hogwarts
School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Please find enclosed a list of all
necessary books and equipment.
Term begins on September 1. We await your owl by no later than July 31.
Yours sincerely,
Minerva Mitchell,
Deputy Headmistress
Questions exploded inside Grace's head like fireworks and she couldn't
decide which to ask first. After a few minutes she stammered, "What does
it mean, they await my owl?"
"Gallopin' Gorgons, that reminds me," said Hadley, clapping a hand to
her forehead with enough force to knock over a cart horse, and from yet
40
another pocket inside her overcoat she pulled an owl -- a real, live,
rather ruffled-looking owl -- a long quill, and a roll of parchment.
With her tongue between her teeth she scribbled a note that Grace could
read upside down:
Dear Professor Magee,
Given Grace her letter.
Taking her to buy her things tomorrow.
Weather's horrible. Hope you're Well.
Hadley
Hadley rolled up the note, gave it to the owl, which clamped it in its
beak, went to the door, and threw the owl out into the storm. Then she
came back and sat down as though this was as normal as talking on the
telephone.
Grace realized her mouth was open and closed it quickly.
"Where was I?" said Hadley, but at that moment, Aunt Viola, still
ashen-faced but looking very angry, moved into the firelight.
"She's not going," she said.
Hadley grunted.
"I'd like ter see a great Muggle like you stop her," she said.
"A what?" said Grace, interested.
"A Muggle," said Hadley, "it's what we call nonmagic folk like thern.
An' it's your bad luck you grew up in a family o' the biggest Muggles I
ever laid eyes on."
"We swore when we took her in we'd put a stop to that rubbish," said
Aunt Viola, "swore we'd stamp it out of her! Wizard indeed!"
"You knew?" said Grace. "You knew I'm a -- a wizard?"
"Knew!" shrieked Uncle Phil suddenly. "Knew! Of course we knew! How
41
could you not be, my dratted brother being what he was? Oh, he got a
letter just like that and disappeared off to that-that school-and came
home every vacation with him pockets full of frog spawn, turning teacups
into rats. I was the only one who saw him for what he was -- a freak!
But for my father and mother, oh no, it was Liam this and Liam that,
they were proud of having a witch in the family!"
He stopped to draw a deep breath and then went ranting on. It seemed
he had been wanting to say all this for years.
"Then he met that Potter at school and they left and got married and
had you, and of course I knew you'd be just the same, just as strange,
just as -- as -- abnormal -- and then, if you please, he went and got
himself blown up and we got landed with you!"
Grace had gone very white. As soon as she found her voice she said, "Blown
up? You told me they died in a car crash!"
"CAR CRASH!" roared Hadley, jumping up so angrily that the Dursleys
scuttled back to their corner. "How could a car crash kill Liam an'
Jody Potter? It's an outrage! A scandal! Grace Potter not knowin' her
own story when every kid in our world knows her name!" "But why? What
happened?" Grace asked urgently.
The anger faded from Hadley's face. She looked suddenly anxious.
"I never expected this," she said, in a low, worried voice. "I had no
idea, when Magee told me there might be trouble gettin' hold of
yeh, how much yeh didn't know. Ah, Grace, I don' know if I'm the right
person ter tell yeh -- but someone 3 s gotta -- yeh can't go off ter
Hogwarts not knowin'."
She threw a dirty look at the Dursleys.
"Well, it's best yeh know as much as I can tell yeh -- mind, I can't
tell yeh everythin', it's a great myst'ry, parts of it...."
She sat down, stared into the fire for a few seconds, and then said, "It
begins, I suppose, with -- with a person called -- but it's incredible
yeh don't know her name, everyone in our world knows --"
"Who? "
42
"Well -- I don' like sayin' the name if I can help it. No one does."
"Why not?"
"Gulpin' gargoyles, Grace, people are still scared. Blimey, this is
difficult. See, there was this wizard who went... bad. As bad as you
could go. Worse. Worse than worse. Hers name was..."
Hadley gulped, but no words came out.
"Could you write it down?" Grace suggested.
"Nah -can't spell it. All right -- Spradulus. " Hadley shuddered. "Don'
make me say it again. Anyway, this -- this wizard, about twenty years
ago now, started lookin' fer followers. Got 'em, too -- some were
afraid, some just wanted a bit o' her power, 'cause she was gettin'
herself power, all right. Dark days, Grace. Didn't know who ter trust,
didn't dare get friendly with strange wizards or witches... terrible
things happened. She was takin' over. 'Course, some stood up to her --
an' she killed 'em. Horribly. One o' the only safe places left was
Hogwarts. Reckon Magee's the only one You-Know-Who was afraid of.
Didn't dare try takin' the school, not jus' then, anyway.
"Now, yer mum an' dad were as good a witch an' wizard as I ever knew.
Head girl an' girl at Hogwarts in their day! Suppose the myst'ry is why
You-Know-Who never tried to get 'em on her side before... probably knew
they were too close ter Magee ter want anythin' ter do with the
Dark Side.
"Maybe she thought she could persuade 'em... maybe she just wanted 'em
outta the way. All anyone knows is, she turned up in the village where
you was all living, on Halloween ten years ago. You was just a year old.
She came ter yer house an' -- an' --"
Hadley suddenly pulled out a very dirty, spotted handkerchief and blew
her nose with a sound like a foghorn.
"Sorry," she said. "But it's that sad -- knew yer mum an' dad, an' nicer
people yeh couldn't find -- anyway..."
"You-Know-Who killed 'em. An' then -- an' this is the real myst'ry of
the thing -- she tried to kill you, too. Wanted ter make a clean job of
it, I suppose, or maybe she just liked killin' by then. But she couldn't
43
do it. Never wondered how you got that mark on yer forehead? That was no
ordinary cut. That's what yeh get when a Powerful, evil curse touches
yeh -- took care of yer mum an' dad an' yer house, even -- but it didn't
work on you, an' that's why yer famous, Grace. No one ever lived after
she decided ter kill 'em, no one except you, an' she'd killed some o' the
best witches an' wizards of the age -- the McKinnons, the Bones, the
Prewetts -- an' you was only a baby, an' you lived."
Something very painful was going on in Grace's mind. As Hadley's story
came to a close, she saw again the blinding flash of green light, more
clearly than she had ever remembered it before -- and she remembered
something else, for the first time in her life: a high, cold, cruel
laugh.
Hadley was watching her sadly.
"Took yeh from the ruined house myself, on Magee's orders. Brought
yeh ter this lot..."
"Load of old tosh," said Aunt Viola. Grace jumped; she had almost
forgotten that the Dursleys were there. Aunt Viola certainly seemed to
have got back her courage. She was glaring at Hadley and her fists were
clenched.
"Now, you listen here, girl," she snarled, "I accept there's something
strange about you, probably nothing a good beating wouldn't have cured
-- and as for all this about your parents, well, they were weirdos, no
denying it, and the world's better off without them in my opinion --
asked for all they got, getting mixed up with these wizarding types --
just what I expected, always knew they'd come to a sticky end --"
But at that moment, Hadley leapt from the sofa and drew a battered pink
umbrella from inside her coat. Pointing this at Aunt Viola like a
sword, she said, "I'm warning you, Dursley -I'm warning you -- one more
word... "
In danger of being speared on the end of an umbrella by a bearded giant,
Aunt Viola's courage failed again; she flattened herself against the
wall and fell silent.
"That's better," said Hadley, breathing heavily and sitting back down on
the sofa, which this time sagged right down to the floor.
44
Grace, meanwhile, still had questions to ask, hundreds of them.
"But what happened to Vol--, sorry -- I mean, You-Know-Who?"
"Good question, Grace. Disappeared. Vanished. Same night she tried ter
kill you. Makes yeh even more famous. That's the biggest myst'ry, see...
she was gettin' more an' more powerful -- why'd she go?
"Some say she died. Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if she had enough
human left in her to die. Some say she's still out there, bidin' her
time, like, but I don' believe it. People who was on her side came back
ter ours. Some of 'em came outta kinda trances. Don~ reckon they
could've done if she was comin' back.
"Most of us reckon she's still out there somewhere but lost her powers.
Too weak to carry on. 'Cause somethin' about you finished her, Grace.
There was somethin' goin' on that night she hadn't counted on -- I dunno
what it was, no one does -- but somethin' about you stumped her, all
right."
Hadley looked at Grace with warmth and respect blazing in her eyes, but
Grace, instead of feeling pleased and proud, felt quite sure there had
been a horrible mistake. A wizard? Her? How could she possibly be? She'd
spent her life being clouted by Daffney, and bullied by Uncle Phil and
Aunt Viola; if she was really a wizard, why hadn't they been turned
into warty toads every time they'd tried to lock her in her cupboard? If
she'd once defeated the greatest sorcerer in the world, how come Daffney
had always been able to kick her around like a football?
"Hadley," she said quietly, "I think you must have made a mistake. I
don't think I can be a wizard."
To her surprise, Hadley chuckled.
"Not a wizard, eh? Never made things happen when you was scared or
angry?"
Grace looked into the fire. Now she came to think about it... every odd
thing that had ever made her uncle and aunt furious with her had
happened when she, Grace, had been upset or angry... chased by Daffney's
gang, she had somehow found herself out of their reach... dreading going
to school with that ridiculous haircut, she'd managed to make it grow
back... and the very last time Daffney had hit her, hadn't she got her
45
revenge, without even realizing she was doing it? Hadn't she set a boa
constrictor on her?
Grace looked back at Hadley, smiling, and saw that Hadley was positively
beaming at her.
"See?" said Hadley. "Grace Potter, not a wizard -- you wait, you'll be
right famous at Hogwarts."
But Aunt Viola wasn't going to give in without a fight.
"Haven't I told you she's not going?" she hissed. "She's going to Stonewall
High and she'll be grateful for it. I've read those letters and she needs
all sorts of rubbish -- spell books and wands and --"
"If she wants ter go, a great Muggle like you won't stop her," growled
Hadley. "Stop Liam an' Jody Potter' s daughter goin' ter Hogwarts! Yer mad.
Hers name's been down ever since she was born. She's off ter the finest
school of witchcraft and wizardry in the world. Seven years there and she
won't know herself. She'll be with youngsters of her own sort, fer a
change, an' she'll be under the greatest headmistress Hogwarts ever had
Ally Dumbled--"
"I AM NOT PAYING FOR SOME CRACKPOT OLD FOOL To TEACH HIM
MAGIC TRICKS!"
yelled Aunt Viola.
But she had finally gone too far. Hadley seized her umbrella and whirled
it over her head, "NEVER," she thundered, "- INSULT- ALBUS- DUMBLEDOREIN-
FRONT- OF- ME!"
She brought the umbrella swishing down through the air to point at Daffney
-- there was a flash of violet light, a sound like a firecracker, a
sharp squeal, and the next second, Daffney was dancing on the spot with
her hands clasped over her fat bottom, howling in pain. When she turned
her back on them, Grace saw a curly pig's tail poking through a hole in
her trousers.
Aunt Viola roared. Pulling Uncle Phil and Daffney into the other
room, she cast one last terrified look at Hadley and slammed the door
behind them.
Hadley looked down at her umbrella and stroked her chin.
46
"Shouldn'ta lost me temper," she said ruefully, "but it didn't work
anyway. Meant ter turn her into a pig, but I suppose she was so much like
a pig anyway there wasn't much left ter do."
She cast a sideways look at Grace under her bushy eyebrows.
"Be grateful if yeh didn't mention that ter anyone at Hogwarts," she
said. "I'm -- er -- not supposed ter do magic, strictly speakin'. I was
allowed ter do a bit ter follow yeh an' get yer letters to yeh an' stuff
-- one o' the reasons I was so keen ter take on the job
"Why aren't you supposed to do magic?" asked Grace.
"Oh, well -- I was at Hogwarts meself but I -- er -- got expelled, ter
tell yeh the truth. In me third year. They snapped me wand in half an'
everything. But Magee let me stay on as gamekeeper. Great woman,
Magee." "Why were you expelled?"
"It's gettin' late and we've got lots ter do tomorrow," said Hadley
loudly. "Gotta get up ter town, get all yer books an' that."
She took off her thick black coat and threw it to Grace.
"You can kip under that," she said. "Don' mind if it wriggles a bit, I
think I still got a couple o' dormice in one o' the pockets."
CHAPTER FIVE
DIAGON ALLEY
Grace woke early the next morning. Although she could tell it was
daylight, she kept her eyes shut tight.
"It was a dream, she told herself firmly. "I dreamed a giant called
Hadley came to tell me I was going to a school for wizards. When I open
my eyes I'll be at home in my cupboard."
There was suddenly a loud tapping noise.
And there's Uncle Phil knocking on the door, Grace thought, her heart
sinking. But she still didn't open her eyes. It had been such a good
47
dream.
Tap. Tap. Tap.
"All right," Grace mumbled, "I'm getting up."
She sat up and Hadley's heavy coat fell off her. The hut was full of
sunlight, the storm was over, Hadley herself was asleep on the collapsed
sofa, and there was an owl rapping its claw on the window, a newspaper
held in its beak.
Grace scrambled to her feet, so happy she felt as though a large balloon
was swelling inside her. She went straight to the window and jerked it
open. The owl swooped in and dropped the newspaper on top of Hadley, who
didn't wake up. The owl then fluttered onto the floor and began to
attack Hadley's coat.
"Don't do that."
Grace tried to wave the owl out of the way, but it snapped its beak
fiercely at her and carried on savaging the coat.
"Hadley!" said Grace loudly. "There's an owl
"Pay her," Hadley grunted into the sofa.
"What?"
"She wants payin' fer deliverin' the paper. Look in the pockets."
Hadley's coat seemed to be made of nothing but pockets -- bunches of
keys, slug pellets, balls of string, peppermint humbugs, teabags...
finally, Grace pulled out a handful of strange-looking coins.
"Give her five Knuts," said Hadley sleepily.
"Knuts?"
"The little bronze ones."
Grace counted out five little bronze coins, and the owl held out her leg
so Grace could put the money into a small leather pouch tied to it. Then
she flew off through the open window.
48
Hadley yawned loudly, sat up, and stretched.
"Best be Off, Grace, lots ter do today, gotta get up ter London an' buy
all yer stuff fer school."
Grace was turning over the wizard coins and looking at them. She had just
thought of something that made her feel as though the happy balloon
inside her had got a puncture.
"Um -- Hadley?"
"Mm?" said Hadley, who was pulling on her huge boots.
"I haven't got any money -- and you heard Aunt Viola last night ... she
won't pay for me to go and learn magic."
"Don't worry about that," said Hadley, standing up and scratching her
head. "D'yeh think yer parents didn't leave yeh anything?"
"But if their house was destroyed --"
"They didn' keep their gold in the house, girl! Nah, first stop fer us is
Gringotts. Wizards' bank. Have a sausage, they're not bad cold -- an' I
wouldn' say no teh a bit o' yer birthday cake, neither."
"Wizards have banks?"
"Just the one. Gringotts. Run by goblins."
Grace dropped the bit of sausage she was holding.
"Goblins?"
"Yeah -- so yeh'd be mad ter try an' rob it, I'll tell yeh that. Never
mess with goblins, Grace. Gringotts is the safest place in the world fer
anything yeh want ter keep safe -- 'cept maybe Hogwarts. As a matter o'
fact, I gotta visit Gringotts anyway. Fer Magee. Hogwarts
business." Hadley drew herself up proudly. "She usually gets me ter do
important stuff fer her. Fetchin' you gettin' things from Gringotts --
knows she can trust me, see.
"Got everythin'? Come on, then."
49
Grace followed Hadley out onto the rock. The sky was quite clear now and
the sea gleamed in the sunlight. The boat Aunt Viola had hired was
still there, with a lot of water in the bottom after the storm.
"How did you get here?" Grace asked, looking around for another boat.
"Flew," said Hadley.
"Flew?"
"Yeah -- but we'll go back in this. Not s'pposed ter use magic now I've
got yeh."
They settled down in the boat, Grace still staring at Hadley, trying to
imagine her flying.
"Seems a shame ter row, though," said Hadley, giving Grace another of
her sideways looks. "If I was ter -- er -- speed things up a bit, would
yeh mind not mentionin' it at Hogwarts?"
"Of course not," said Grace, eager to see more magic. Hadley pulled out
the pink umbrella again, tapped it twice on the side of the boat, and
they sped off toward land.
"Why would you be mad to try and rob Gringotts?" Grace asked.
"Spells -- enchantments," said Hadley, unfolding her newspaper as she
spoke. "They say there's dragons guardin' the highsecurity vaults. And
then yeh gotta find yer way -- Gringotts is hundreds of miles under
London, see. Deep under the Underground. Yeh'd die of hunger tryin' ter
get out, even if yeh did manage ter get yer hands on summat."
Grace sat and thought about this while Hadley read her newspaper, the
Daily Prophet. Grace had learned from Aunt Viola that people liked to
be left alone while they did this, but it was very difficult, she'd never
had so many questions in her life.
"Ministry o' Magic messin' things up as usual," Hadley muttered, turning
the page.
"There's a Ministry of Magic?" Grace asked, before she could stop
herself.
"'Course," said Hadley. "They wanted Magee fer Minister, 0 '
50
course, but she'd never leave Hogwarts, so old Cornelius Fudge got the
job. Bungler if ever there was one. So she pelts Magee with owls
every morning, askin' fer advice."
"But what does a Ministry of Magic do?"
"Well, their main job is to keep it from the Muggles that there's still
witches an' wizards up an' down the country."
"Why?"
"Why? Blimey, Grace, everyone'd be wantin' magic solutions to their
problems. Nah, we're best left alone."
At this moment the boat bumped gently into the harbor wall. Hadley
folded up her newspaper, and they clambered up the stone steps onto the
street.
Passersby stared a lot at Hadley as they walked through the little town
to the station. Grace couldn't blame them. Not only was Hadley twice as
tall as anyone else, she kept pointing at perfectly ordinary things like
parking meters and saying loudly, "See that, Grace? Things these Muggles
dream up, eh?"
"Hadley," said Grace, panting a bit as she ran to keep up, "did you say
there are dragons at Gringotts?"
"Well, so they say," said Hadley. "Crikey, I'd like a dragon."
"You'd like one?"
"Wanted one ever since I was a kid -- here we go."
They had reached the station. There was a train to London in five
minutes' time. Hadley, who didn't understand "Muggle money," as she
called it, gave the bills to Grace so she could buy their tickets.
People stared more than ever on the train. Hadley took up two seats and
sat knitting what looked like a canary-yellow circus tent.
"Still got yer letter, Grace?" she asked as she counted stitches. Grace
took the parchment envelope out of her pocket.
51
"Good," said Hadley. "There's a list there of everything yeh need."
Grace unfolded a second piece of paper she hadn't noticed the night
before, and read:
HOGWARTS SCHOOL of WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY
UNIFORM
First-year students will require:
1. Three sets of plain work robes (black)
2. One plain pointed hat (black) for day wear
3. One pair of protective gloves (dragon hide or similar)
4. One winter cloak (black, silver fastenings)
Please note that all pupils' clothes should carry name tags
COURSE BOOKS
All students should have a copy of each of the following:
The Standard Book of Spells (Grade 1) by Miranda Goshawk
A History of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot
Magical Theory by Adalbert Waffling
A Beginners' Guide to Transfiguration by Emetic Switch
One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi by Phyllida Spore
Magical Drafts and Potions by Arsenius Jigger
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them by Newt Scamander
The Dark Forces: A Guide to Self-Protection by Quentin Trimble
OTHER EQUIPMENT
52
wand cauldron (pewter, standard size 2) set
glass or crystal phials
telescope set
brass scales
Students may also bring an owl OR a cat OR a toad
PARENTS ARE REMINDED THAT FIRST YEARS ARE NOT ALLOWED
THEIR OWN
BROOMSTICKS
"Can we buy all this in London?" Grace wondered aloud.
"If yeh know where to go," said Hadley.
Grace had never been to London before. Although Hadley seemed to know
where she was going, she was obviously not used to getting there in an
ordinary way. She got stuck in the ticket barrier on the Underground, and
complained loudly that the seats were too small and the trains too slow.
"I don't know how the Muggles manage without magic," she said as they
climbed a broken-down escalator that led up to a bustling road lined
with shops.
Hadley was so huge that she parted the crowd easily; all Grace had to do
was keep close behind her. They passed book shops and music stores,
hamburger restaurants and cinemas, but nowhere that looked as if it
could sell you a magic wand. This was just an ordinary street full of
ordinary people. Could there really be piles of wizard gold buried miles
beneath them? Were there really shops that sold spell books and
broomsticks? Might this not all be some huge joke that the Dursleys had
cooked up? If Grace hadn't known that the Dursleys had no sense of
humor, she might have thought so; yet somehow, even though everything
Hadley had told her so far was unbelievable, Grace couldn't help
trusting her.
"This is it," said Hadley, coming to a halt, "the Leaky Cauldron. It's a
famous place."
It was a tiny, grubby-looking pub. If Hadley hadn't pointed it out,
53
Grace wouldn't have noticed it was there. The people hurrying by didn't
glance at it. Their eyes slid from the big book shop on one side to the
record shop on the other as if they couldn't see the Leaky Cauldron at
all. In fact, Grace had the most peculiar feeling that only she and
Hadley could see it. Before she could mention this, Hadley had steered
her inside.
For a famous place, it was very dark and shabby. A few old men were
sitting in a corner, drinking tiny glasses of sherry. One of them was
smoking a long pipe. A little woman in a top hat was talking to the old
bartender, who was quite bald and looked like a toothless walnut. The
low buzz of chatter stopped when they walked in. Everyone seemed to know
Hadley; they waved and smiled at her, and the bartender reached for a
glass, saying, "The usual, Hadley?"
"Can't, Tom, I'm on Hogwarts business," said Hadley, clapping her great
hand on Grace's shoulder and making Grace's knees buckle.
"Good Lord," said the bartender, peering at Grace, "is this -- can this
be --?"
The Leaky Cauldron had suddenly gone completely still and silent.
"Bless my soul," whispered the old bartender, "Grace Potter... what an
honor."
She hurried out from behind the bar, rushed toward Grace and seized her
hand, tears in her eyes.
"Welcome back, Mrs. Potter, welcome back."
Grace didn't know what to say. Everyone was looking at her. The old
man with the pipe was puffing on it without realizing it had gone out.
Hadley was beaming.
Then there was a great scraping of chairs and the next moment, Grace
found herself shaking hands with everyone in the Leaky Cauldron.
"Doris Crockford, Mrs. Potter, can't believe I'm meeting you at last."
"So proud, Mrs. Potter, I'm just so proud."
54
"Always wanted to shake your hand -- I'm all of a flutter."
"Delighted, Mrs. Potter, just can't tell you, Diggle's the name, Dedalus
Diggle."
"I've seen you before!" said Grace, as Dedalus Diggle's top hat fell off
in her excitement. "You bowed to me once in a shop."
"She remembers!" cried Dedalus Diggle, looking around at everyone. "Did
you hear that? She remembers me!" Grace shook hands again and again --
Doris Crockford kept coming back for more.
A pale young woman made her way forward, very nervously. One of her eyes
was twitching.
"Professor Williams!" said Hadley. "Grace, Professor Williams will be
one of your teachers at Hogwarts."
"P-P-Potter," stammered Professor Williams, grasping Grace's hand,
"c-can't t-tell you how p- pleased I am to meet you."
"What sort of magic do you teach, Professor Williams?"
"D-Defense Against the D-D-Dark Arts," muttered Professor Williams, as
though she'd rather not think about it. "N-not that you n-need it, eh,
P-P-Potter?" She laughed nervously. "You'll be g-getting all your
equipment, I suppose? I've g-got to p-pick up a new b-book on vampires,
m-myself." She looked terrified at the very thought.
But the others wouldn't let Professor Williams keep Grace to herself. It
took almost ten minutes to get away from them all. At last, Hadley
managed to make herself heard over the babble.
"Must get on -- lots ter buy. Come on, Grace."
Doris Crockford shook Grace's hand one last time, and Hadley led them
through the bar and out into a small, walled courtyard, where there was
nothing but a trash can and a few weeds.
Hadley grinned at Grace.
"Told yeh, didn't I? Told yeh you was famous. Even Professor Williams
55
was tremblin' ter meet yeh -- mind you, she's usually tremblin'."
"Is she always that nervous?"
"Oh, yeah. Poor bloke. Brilliant mind. She was fine while she was
studyin' outta books but then she took a year off ter get some firsthand
experience.... They say she met vampires in the Black Forest, and there
was a nasty bit o' trouble with a hag -- never been the same since.
Scared of the students, scared of her own subject now, where's me
umbrella?"
Vampires? Hags? Grace's head was swimming. Hadley, meanwhile, was
counting bricks in the wall above the trash can.
"Three up... two across she muttered. "Right, stand back, Grace."
She tapped the wall three times with the point of her umbrella.
The brick she had touched quivered -- it wriggled -- in the middle, a
small hole appeared -- it grew wider and wider -- a second later they
were facing an archway large enough even for Hadley, an archway onto a
cobbled street that twisted and turned out of sight.
"Welcome," said Hadley, "to Diagon Alley."
She grinned at Grace's amazement. They stepped through the archway. Grace
looked quickly over her shoulder and saw the archway shrink instantly
back into solid wall.
The sun shone brightly on a stack of cauldrons outside the nearest shop.
Cauldrons -- All Sizes - Copper, Brass, Pewter, Silver -- Self-Stirring
-- Collapsible, said a sign hanging over them.
"Yeah, you'll be needin' one," said Hadley, "but we gotta get yer money
first."
Grace wished she had about eight more eyes. She turned her head in every
direction as they walked up the street, trying to look at everything at
once: the shops, the things outside them, the people doing their
shopping. A plump man outside an Apothecary was shaking him head as
they passed, saying, "Dragon liver, seventeen Sickles an ounce, they're
mad...."
56
A low, soft hooting came from a dark shop with a sign saying Eeylops Owl
Emporium -- Tawny, Screech, Barn, Brown, and Snowy. Several girls of
about Grace's age had their noses pressed against a window with
broomsticks in it. "Look," Grace heard one of them say, "the new Nimbus
Two Thousand -- fastest ever --" There were shops selling robes, shops
selling telescopes and strange silver instruments Grace had never seen
before, windows stacked with barrels of bat spleens and eels' eyes,
tottering piles of spell books, quills, and rolls of parchment, potion
bottles, globes of the moon....
"Gringotts," said Hadley.
They had reached a snowy white building that towered over the other
little shops. Standing beside its burnished bronze doors, wearing a
uniform of scarlet and gold, was -
"Yeah, that's a goblin," said Hadley quietly as they walked up the white
stone steps toward her. The goblin was about a head shorter than Grace.
She had a swarthy, clever face, a pointed chin and, Grace noticed, very
long fingers and feet. She bowed as they walked inside. Now they were
facing a second pair of doors, silver this time, with words engraved
upon them:
Enter, stranger, but take heed
Of what awaits the sin of greed,
For those who take, but do not earn,
Must pay most dearly in their turn.
So if you seek beneath our floors
A treasure that was never yours,
Thief, you have been warned, beware
Of finding more than treasure there.
"Like I said, Yeh'd be mad ter try an' rob it," said Hadley.
A pair of goblins bowed them through the silver doors and they were in a
57
vast marble hall. About a hundred more goblins were sitting on high
stools behind a long counter, scribbling in large ledgers, weighing
coins in brass scales, examining precious stones through eyeglasses.
There were too many doors to count leading off the hall, and yet more
goblins were showing people in and out of these. Hadley and Grace made
for the counter.
"Morning," said Hadley to a free goblin. "We've come ter take some money
outta Mrs. Grace Potter's safe."
"You have her key, Madam?"
"Got it here somewhere," said Hadley, and she started emptying her
pockets onto the counter, scattering a handful of moldy dog biscuits
over the goblin's book of numbers. The goblin wrinkled her nose. Grace
watched the goblin on their right weighing a pile of rubies as big as
glowing coals.
"Got it," said Hadley at last, holding up a tiny golden key.
The goblin looked at it closely.
"That seems to be in order."
"An' I've also got a letter here from Professor Magee," said Hadley
importantly, throwing out her chest. "It's about the YouKnow-What in
vault seven hundred and thirteen."
The goblin read the letter carefully.
"Very well," she said, handing it back to Hadley, "I will have Someone
take you down to both vaults. Griphook!"
Griphook was yet another goblin. Once Hadley had crammed all the dog
biscuits back inside her pockets, she and Grace followed Griphook toward
one of the doors leading off the hall.
"What's the You-Know-What in vault seven hundred and thirteen?" Grace
asked.
"Can't tell yeh that," said Hadley mysteriously. "Very secret. Hogwarts
business. Magee's trusted me. More'n my job's worth ter tell yeh
that."
58
Griphook held the door open for them. Grace, who had expected more
marble, was surprised. They were in a narrow stone passageway lit with
flaming torches. It sloped steeply downward and there were little
railway tracks on the floor. Griphook whistled and a small cart came
hurtling up the tracks toward them. They climbed in -- Hadley with some
difficulty -- and were off.
At first they just hurtled through a maze of twisting passages. Grace
tried to remember, left, right, right, left, middle fork, right, left,
but it was impossible. The rattling cart seemed to know its own way,
because Griphook wasn't steering.
Grace's eyes stung as the cold air rushed past them, but she kept them
wide open. Once, she thought she saw a burst of fire at the end of a
passage and twisted around to see if it was a dragon, but too late - -
they plunged even deeper, passing an underground lake where huge
stalactites and stalagmites grew from the ceiling and floor.
I never know," Grace called to Hadley over the noise of the cart,
"what's the difference between a stalagmite and a stalactite?"
"Stalagmite's got an 'm' in it," said Hadley. "An' don' ask me questions
just now, I think I'm gonna be sick."
She did look very green, and when the cart stopped at last beside a small
door in the passage wall, Hadley got out and had to lean against the
wall to stop her knees from trembling.
Griphook unlocked the door. A lot of green smoke came billowing out, and
as it cleared, Grace gasped. Inside were mounds of gold coins. Columns
of silver. Heaps of little bronze Knuts.
"All yours," smiled Hadley.
All Grace's -- it was incredible. The Dursleys couldn't have known about
this or they'd have had it from her faster than blinking. How often had
they complained how much Grace cost them to keep? And all the time there
had been a small fortune belonging to her, buried deep under London.
Hadley helped Grace pile some of it into a bag.
"The gold ones are Galleons," she explained. "Seventeen silver Sickles to
59
a Galleon and twenty-nine Knuts to a Sickle, it's easy enough. Right,
that should be enough fer a couple o' terms, we'll keep the rest safe
for yeh." She turned to Griphook. "Vault seven hundred and thirteen now,
please, and can we go more slowly?"
"One speed only," said Griphook.
They were going even deeper now and gathering speed. The air became
colder and colder as they hurtled round tight corners. They went
rattling over an underground ravine, and Grace leaned over the side to
try to see what was down at the dark bottom, but Hadley groaned and
pulled her back by the scruff of her neck.
Vault seven hundred and thirteen had no keyhole.
"Stand back," said Griphook importantly. She stroked the door gently with
one of her long fingers and it simply melted away.
"If anyone but a Gringotts goblin tried that, they'd be sucked through
the door and trapped in there," said Griphook.
"How often do you check to see if anyone's inside?" Grace asked.
"About once every ten years," said Griphook with a rather nasty grin.
Something really extraordinary had to be inside this top security vault,
Grace was sure, and she leaned forward eagerly, expecting to see fabulous
jewels at the very least -- but at first she thought it was empty. Then
she noticed a grubby little package wrapped up in brown paper lying on
the floor. Hadley picked it up and tucked it deep inside her coat. Grace
longed to know what it was, but knew better than to ask.
"Come on, back in this infernal cart, and don't talk to me on the way
back, it's best if I keep me mouth shut," said Hadley.
One wild cart ride later they stood blinking in the sunlight outside
Gringotts. Grace didn't know where to run first now that she had a bag
full of money. She didn't have to know how many Galleons there were to a
pound to know that she was holding more money than she'd had in her whole
life -- more money than even Daffney had ever had.
"Might as well get yer uniform," said Hadley, nodding toward Sir
Malkin's Robes for All Occasions. "Listen, Grace, would yeh mind if I
60
slipped off fer a pick-me-up in the Leaky Cauldron? I hate them
Gringotts carts." She did still look a bit sick, so Grace entered Sir
Malkin's shop alone, feeling nervous.
Sir Malkin was a squat, smiling witch dressed all in mauve.
"Hogwarts, clear?" he said, when Grace started to speak. "Got the lot
here -- another young woman being fitted up just now, in fact. "
In the back of the shop, a girl with a pale, pointed face was standing on
a footstool while a second witch pinned up her long black robes. Sir
Malkin stood Grace on a stool next to her) slipped a long robe over her
head, and began to pin it to the right length.
"Hello," said the girl, "Hogwarts, too?"
"Yes," said Grace.
"My mother's next door buying my books and father's up the street
looking at wands," said the girl. She had a bored, drawling voice. "Then
I'm going to drag them off to took at racing brooms. I don't see why
first years can't have their own. I think I'll bully mother into getting
me one and I'll smuggle it in somehow."
Grace was strongly reminded of Daffney.
"Have you got your own broom?" the girl went on.
"No," said Grace.
"Play Quidditch at all?"
"No," Grace said again, wondering what on earth Quidditch could be.
"I do -- Mother says it's a crime if I'm not picked to play for my
house, and I must say, I agree. Know what house you'll be in yet?"
"No," said Grace, feeling more stupid by the minute.
"Well, no one really knows until they get there, do they, but I know
I'll be in Slytherin, all our family have been -- imagine being in
Hufflepuff, I think I'd leave, wouldn't you?" "Mmm," said Grace, wishing
she could say something a bit more interesting.
61
"I say, look at that woman!" said the girl suddenly, nodding toward the
front window. Hadley was standing there, grinning at Grace and pointing
at two large ice creams to show she couldn't come in.
"That's Hadley," said Grace, pleased to know something the girl didn't.
"She works at Hogwarts."
"Oh," said the girl, "I've heard of her. She's a sort of servant, isn't
she?"
"She's the gamekeeper," said Grace. She was liking the girl less and less
every second.
"Yes, exactly. I heard she's a sort of savage -- lives in a hut on the
school grounds and every now and then she gets drunk, tries to do magic,
and ends up setting fire to her bed."
"I think she's brilliant," said Grace coldly.
"Do you?" said the girl, with a slight sneer. "Why is she with you? Where
are your parents?"
"They're dead," said Grace shortly. She didn't feel much like going into
the matter with this girl.
"Oh, sorry," said the other,. not sounding sorry at all. "But they were
our kind, weren't they?"
"They were a witch and wizard, if that's what you mean."
"I really don't think they should let the other sort in, do you? They're
just not the same, they've never been brought up to know our ways. Some
of them have never even heard of Hogwarts until they get the letter,
imagine. I think they should keep it in the old wizarding families.
What's your surname, anyway?"
But before Grace could answer, Sir Malkin said, "That's you done, my
dear," and Grace, not sorry for an excuse to stop talking to the girl,
hopped down from the footstool.
"Well, I'll see you at Hogwarts, I suppose," said the drawling girl.
62
Grace was rather quiet as she ate the ice cream Hadley had bought her
(chocolate and raspberry with chopped nuts).
"What's up?" said Hadley.
"Nothing," Grace lied. They stopped to buy parchment and quills. Grace
cheered up a bit when she found a bottle of ink that changed color as you
wrote. When they had left the shop, she said, "Hadley, what's Quidditch?"
"Blimey, Grace, I keep forgettin' how little yeh know -- not knowin'
about Quidditch!"
"Don't make me feel worse," said Grace. She told Hadley about the pate
girl in Sir Malkin's.
"--and she said people from Muggle families shouldn't even be allowed
in."
"Yer not from a Muggle family. If she'd known who yeh were -- she's grown
up knowin' yer name if her parents are wizardin' folk. You saw what
everyone in the Leaky Cauldron was like when they saw yeh. Anyway, what
does she know about it, some o' the best I ever saw were the only ones
with magic in 'em in a long line 0' Muggles -- look at yer mum! Look
what he had fer a brother!"
"So what is Quidditch?"
"It's our sport. Wizard sport. It's like -- like soccer in the Muggle
world -- everyone follows Quidditch -- played up in the air on
broomsticks and there's four balls -- sorta hard ter explain the rules."
"And what are Slytherin and Hufflepuff?"
"School houses. There's four. Everyone says Hufflepuff are a lot o'
duffers, but --"
"I bet I'm in Hufflepuff" said Grace gloomily.
"Better Hufflepuff than Slytherin," said Hadley darkly. "There's not a
single witch or wizard who went bad who wasn't in Slytherin.
You-Know-Who was one."
"Vol-, sorry - You-Know-Who was at Hogwarts?"
63
"Years an' years ago," said Hadley.
They bought Grace's school books in a shop called Flourish and Blotts
where the shelves were stacked to the ceiling with books as large as
paving stones bound in leather; books the size of postage stamps in
covers of silk; books full of peculiar symbols and a few books with
nothing in them at all. Even Daffney, who never read anything, would have
been wild to get her hands on some of these. Hadley almost had to drag
Grace away from Curses and Countercurses (Bewitch Your Friends and
Befuddle Your Enemies with the Latest Revenges: Hair Loss, Jelly-Legs,
Tongue- Tying and Much, Much More) by Professor Vindictus Viridian.
"I was trying to find out how to curse Daffney."
"I'm not sayin' that's not a good idea, but yer not ter use magic in the
Muggle world except in very special circumstances," said Hadley. "An'
anyway, yeh couldn' work any of them curses yet, yeh'll need a lot more
study before yeh get ter that level."
Hadley wouldn't let Grace buy a solid gold cauldron, either ("It says
pewter on yer list"), but they got a nice set of scales for weighing
potion ingredients and a collapsible brass telescope. Then they visited
the Apothecary, which was fascinating enough to make up for its horrible
smell, a mixture of bad eggs and rotted cabbages. Barrels of slimy stuff
stood on the floor; jars of herbs, dried roots, and bright powders lined
the walls; bundles of feathers, strings of fangs, and snarled claws hung
from the ceiling. While Hadley asked the woman behind the counter for a
supply of some basic potion ingredients for Grace, Grace herself
examined silver unicorn horns at twenty-one Galleons each and minuscule,
glittery-black beetle eyes (five Knuts a scoop).
Outside the Apothecary, Hadley checked Grace's list again.
"Just yer wand left - A yeah, an' I still haven't got yeh a birthday
present."
Grace felt herself go red.
"You don't have to --"
"I know I don't have to. Tell yeh what, I'll get yer animal. Not a toad,
toads went outta fashion years ago, yeh'd be laughed at - an' I don'
like cats, they make me sneeze. I'll get yer an owl. All the kids want
64
owls, they're dead useful, carry yer mail an' everythin'."
Twenty minutes later, they left Eeylops Owl Emporium, which had been
dark and full of rustling and flickering, jewel-bright eyes. Grace now
carried a large cage that held a beautiful snowy owl, fast asleep with
him head under him wing. She couldn't stop stammering her thanks,
sounding just like Professor Williams.
"Don' mention it," said Hadley gruffly. "Don' expect you've had a lotta
presents from them Dursleys. Just Ollivanders left now - only place fer
wands, Ollivanders, and yeh gotta have the best wand."
A magic wand... this was what Grace had been really looking forward to.
The last shop was narrow and shabby. Peeling gold letters over the door
read Ollivanders: Makers of Fine Wands since 382 B.C. A single wand lay
on a faded purple cushion in the dusty window.
A tinkling bell rang somewhere in the depths of the shop as they stepped
inside. It was a tiny place, empty except for a single, spindly chair
that Hadley sat on to wait. Grace felt strangely as though she had
entered a very strict library; she swallowed a lot of new questions that
had just occurred to her and looked instead at the thousands of narrow
boxes piled neatly right up to the ceiling. For some reason, the back of
her neck prickled. The very dust and silence in here seemed to tingle
with some secret magic.
"Good afternoon," said a soft voice. Grace jumped. Hadley must have
jumped, too, because there was a loud crunching noise and she got quickly
off the spindly chair.
An old woman was standing before them, her wide, pale eyes shining like
moons through the gloom of the shop.
"Hello," said Grace awkwardly.
"Ah yes," said the woman. "Yes, yes. I thought I'd be seeing you soon.
Grace Potter." It wasn't a question. "You have your father's eyes. It
seems only yesterday he was in here himself, buying him first wand. Ten
and a quarter inches long, swishy, made of willow. Nice wand for charm
work."
Mrs. Ollivander moved closer to Grace. Grace wished she would blink. Those
65
silvery eyes were a bit creepy.
"Your mother, on the other hand, favored a mahogany wand. Eleven inches.
Pliable. A little more power and excellent for transfiguration. Well, I
say your mother favored it -- it's really the wand that chooses the
wizard, of course."
Mrs. Ollivander had come so close that she and Grace were almost nose to
nose. Grace could see herself reflected in those misty eyes.
"And that's where..."
Mrs. Ollivander touched the lightning scar on Grace's forehead with a
long, white finger.
"I'm sorry to say I sold the wand that did it," she said softly.
"Thirteen-and-a-half inches. Yew. Powerful wand, very powerful, and in
the wrong hands... well, if I'd known what that wand was going out into
the world to do...."
She shook her head and then, to Grace's relief, spotted Hadley.
"Rubeus! Rubeus Hadley! How nice to see you again.... Oak, sixteen
inches, rather bendy, wasn't it?"
"It was, madam, yes," said Hadley.
"Good wand, that one. But I suppose they snapped it in half when you got
expelled?" said Mrs. Ollivander, suddenly stern.
"Er -- yes, they did, yes," said Hadley, shuffling her feet. "I've still
got the pieces, though," she added brightly.
"But you don't use them?" said Mrs. Ollivander sharply.
"Oh, no, sit," said Hadley quickly. Grace noticed she gripped her pink
umbrella very tightly as she spoke.
"Hmmm," said Mrs. Ollivander, giving Hadley a piercing look. "Well, now
-- Mrs. Potter. Let me see." She pulled a long tape measure with silver
markings out of her pocket. "Which is your wand arm?"
"Er -- well, I'm right-handed," said Grace.
66
"Hold out your arm. That's it." She measured Grace from shoulder to
finger, then wrist to elbow, shoulder to floor, knee to armpit and round
her head. As she measured, she said, "Every Ollivander wand has a core of
a powerful magical substance, Mrs. Potter. We use unicorn hairs, phoenix
tail feathers, and the heartstrings of dragons. No two Ollivander wands
are the same, just as no two unicorns, dragons, or phoenixes are quite
the same. And of course, you will never get such good results with
another wizard's wand."
Grace suddenly realized that the tape measure, which was measuring
between her nostrils, was doing this on its own. Mrs. Ollivander was
flitting around the shelves, taking down boxes.
"That will do," she said, and the tape measure crumpled into a heap on
the floor. "Right then, Mrs. Potter. Try this one. Beechwood and dragon
heartstring. Nine inches. Nice and flexible. just take it and give it a
wave."
Grace took the wand and (feeling foolish) waved it around a bit, but Mrs.
Ollivander snatched it out of her hand almost at once.
"Maple and phoenix feather. Seven inches. Quite whippy. Try --"
Grace tried -- but she had hardly raised the wand when it, too, was
snatched back by Mrs. Ollivander.
"No, no -here, ebony and unicorn hair, eight and a half inches, springy.
Go on, go on, try it out."
Grace tried. And tried. She had no idea what Mrs. Ollivander was waiting
for. The pile of tried wands was mounting higher and higher on the
spindly chair, but the more wands Mrs. Ollivander pulled from the
shelves, the happier she seemed to become.
"Tricky customer, eh? Not to worry, we'll find the perfect match here
somewhere -- I wonder, now - - yes, why not -- unusual combination --
holly and phoenix feather, eleven inches, nice and supple."
Grace took the wand. She felt a sudden warmth in her fingers. She raised
the wand above her head, brought it swishing down through the dusty air
and a stream of red and gold sparks shot from the end like a firework,
throwing dancing spots of light on to the walls. Hadley whooped and
67
clapped and Mrs. Ollivander cried, "Oh, bravo! Yes, indeed, oh, very
good. Well, well, well... how curious... how very curious... "
She put Grace's wand back into its box and wrapped it in brown paper,
still muttering, "Curious... curious..
"Sorry," said Grace, "but what's curious?"
Mrs. Ollivander fixed Grace with her pale stare.
"I remember every wand I've ever sold, Mrs. Potter. Every single wand. It
so happens that the phoenix whose tail feather is in your wand, gave
another feather -- just one other. It is very curious indeed that you
should be destined for this wand when its sister why, its sister gave
you that scar."
Grace swallowed.
"Yes, thirteen-and-a-half inches. Yew. Curious indeed how these things
happen. The wand chooses the wizard, remember.... I think we must expect
great things from you, Mrs. Potter.... After all, HeWho-Must-Not-Be-Named
did great things -- terrible, yes, but great."
Grace shivered. She wasn't sure she liked Mrs. Ollivander too much. She paid
seven gold Galleons for her wand, and Mrs. Ollivander bowed them from her
shop.
The late afternoon sun hung low in the sky as Grace and Hadley made
their way back down Diagon Alley, back through the wall, back through
the Leaky Cauldron, now empty. Grace didn't speak at all as they walked
down the road; she didn't even notice how much people were gawking at
them on the Underground, laden as they were with all their funny-shaped
packages, with the snowy owl asleep in its cage on Grace's lap. Up
another escalator, out into Paddington station; Grace only realized
where they were when Hadley tapped her on the shoulder.
"Got time fer a bite to eat before yer train leaves," she said.
She bought Grace a hamburger and they sat down on plastic seats to eat
them. Grace kept looking around. Everything looked so strange, somehow.
"You all right, Grace? Yer very quiet," said Hadley.
68
Grace wasn't sure she could explain. She'd just had the best birthday of
her life -- and yet -- she chewed her hamburger, trying to find the
words.
"Everyone thinks I'm special," she said at last. "All those people in the
Leaky Cauldron, Professor Williams, Mrs. Ollivander... but I don't know
anything about magic at all. How can they expect great things? I'm
famous and I can't even remember what I'm famous for. I don't know what
happened when Vol-, sorry -- I mean, the night my parents died."
Hadley leaned across the table. Behind the wild chin and eyebrows she
wore a very kind smile.
"Don' you worry, Grace. You'll learn fast enough. Everyone starts at the
beginning at Hogwarts, you'll be just fine. just be yerself. I know it's
hard. Yeh've been singled out, an' that's always hard. But yeh'll have a
great time at Hogwarts -- I did -- still do, 'smatter of fact."
Hadley helped Grace on to the train that would take her back to the
Dursleys, then handed her an envelope.
"Yer ticket fer Hogwarts, " she said. "First o' September -- King's Cross
-- it's all on yer ticket. Any problems with the Dursleys, send me a
letter with yer owl, he'll know where to find me.... See yeh soon,
Grace."
The train pulled out of the station. Grace wanted to watch Hadley until
she was out of sight; she rose in her seat and pressed her nose against
the window, but she blinked and Hadley had gone.
CHAPTER SIX
THE JOURNEY FROM PLATFORM NINE AND THREE-QUARTERS
Grace's last month with the Dursleys wasn't fun. True, Daffney was now so
scared of Grace she wouldn't stay in the same room, while Uncle Phil
and Aunt Viola didn't shut Grace in her cupboard, force her to do
anything, or shout at her -- in fact, they didn't speak to her at all.
Half terrified, half furious, they acted as though any chair with Grace
in it were empty. Although this was an improvement in many ways, it did
become a bit depressing after a while.
69
Grace kept to her room, with her new owl for company. She had decided to
call him Hillary, a name she had found in A History of Magic. Hers school
books were very interesting. She lay on her bed reading late into the
night, Hillary swooping in and out of the open window as he pleased. It
was lucky that Uncle Phil didn't come in to vacuum anymore, because
Hillary kept bringing back dead mice. Every night before she went to
sleep, Grace ticked off another day on the piece of paper she had pinned
to the wall, counting down to September the first.
On the last day of August she thought she'd better speak to her uncle and
aunt about getting to King's Cross station the next day, so she went
down to the living room where they were watching a quiz show on
television. She cleared her throat to let them know she was there, and
Daffney screamed and ran from the room.
"Er -- Aunt Viola?"
Aunt Viola grunted to show she was listening.
"Er -- I need to be at King's Cross tomorrow to -- to go to Hogwarts."
Aunt Viola grunted again.
"Would it be all right if you gave me a lift?"
Grunt. Grace supposed that meant yes.
"Thank you."
She was about to go back upstairs when Aunt Viola actually spoke.
"Funny way to get to a wizards' school, the train. Magic carpets all got
punctures, have they?"
Grace didn't say anything.
"Where is this school, anyway?"
"I don't know," said Grace, realizing this for the first time. She pulled
the ticket Hadley had given her out of her pocket.
"I just take the train from platform nine and three-quarters at eleven
o'clock," she read.
70
Hers uncle and aunt stared.
"Platform what?"
"Nine and three-quarters."
"Don't talk rubbish," said Aunt Viola. "There is no platform nine and
three-quarters."
"It's on my ticket."
"Barking," said Aunt Viola, "howling mad, the lot of them. You'll see.
You just wait. All right, we'll take you to King's Cross. We're going up
to London tomorrow anyway, or I wouldn't bother."
"Why are you going to London?" Grace asked, trying to keep things
friendly.
"Taking Daffney to the hospital," growled Aunt Viola. "Got to have that
ruddy tail removed before she goes to Smeltings."
Grace woke at five o'clock the next morning and was too excited and
nervous to go back to sleep. She got up and pulled on her jeans because
she didn't want to walk into the station in her wizard's robes -- she'd
change on the train. She checked her Hogwarts list yet again to make sure
she had everything she needed, saw that Hillary was shut safely in him
cage, and then paced the room, waiting for the Dursleys to get up. Two
hours later, Grace's huge, heavy trunk had been loaded into the
Dursleys' car, Uncle Phil had talked Daffney into sitting next to
Grace, and they had set off.
They reached King's Cross at half past ten. Aunt Viola dumped Grace's
trunk onto a cart and wheeled it into the station for her. Grace thought
this was strangely kind until Aunt Viola stopped dead, facing the
platforms with a nasty grin on her face.
"Well, there you are, girl. Platform nine -- platform ten. Your platform
should be somewhere in the middle, but they don't seem to have built it
yet, do they?"
She was quite right, of course. There was a big plastic number nine over
one platform and a big plastic number ten over the one next to it, and
71
in the middle, nothing at all.
"Have a good term," said Aunt Viola with an even nastier smile. She
left without another word. Grace turned and saw the Dursleys drive away.
All three of them were laughing. Grace's mouth went rather dry. What on
earth was she going to do? She was starting to attract a lot of funny
looks, because of Hillary. She'd have to ask someone.
She stopped a passing guard, but didn't dare mention platform nine and
three-quarters. The guard had never heard of Hogwarts and when Grace
couldn't even tell her what part of the country it was in, she started to
get annoyed, as though Grace was being stupid on purpose. Getting
desperate, Grace asked for the train that left at eleven o'clock, but
the guard said there wasn't one. In the end the guard strode away,
muttering about time wasters. Grace was now trying hard not to panic.
According to the large clock over the arrivals board, she had ten minutes
left to get on the train to Hogwarts and she had no idea how to do it; she
was stranded in the middle of a station with a trunk she could hardly
lift, a pocket full of wizard money, and a large owl.
Hadley must have forgotten to tell her something you had to do, like
tapping the third brick on the left to get into Diagon Alley. She
wondered if she should get out her wand and start tapping the ticket
inspector's stand between platforms nine and ten.
At that moment a group of people passed just behind her and she caught a
few words of what they were saying.
"-- packed with Muggles, of course --"
Grace swung round. The speaker was a plump man who was talking to four
girls, all with flaming red hair. Each of them was pushing a trunk like
Grace's in front of her -- and they had an owl.
Heart hammering, Grace pushed her cart after them. They stopped and so
did she, just near enough to hear what they were saying.
"Now, what's the platform number?" said the girls' father.
"Nine and three-quarters!" piped a small girl, also red-headed, who was
holding him hand, "Mom, can't I go... "
"You're not old enough, Jason, now be quiet. All right, Percy, you go
72
first."
What looked like the oldest girl marched toward platforms nine and ten.
Grace watched, careful not to blink in case she missed it -- but just as
the girl reached the dividing barrier between the two platforms, a large
crowd of tourists came swarming in front of her and by the time the last
backpack had cleared away, the girl had vanished.
"Lisa, you next," the plump man said.
"I'm not Lisa, I'm Rebecca," said the girl. "Honestly, man, you call
yourself our father? CarA you tell I'm Rebecca?"
"Sorry, Rebecca, dear."
"Only joking, I am Lisa," said the girl, and off she went. Hers twin called
after her to hurry up, and she must have done so, because a second later,
she had gone -- but how had she done it?
Now the third sister was walking briskly toward the barrier she was
almost there -- and then, quite suddenly, she wasn't anywhere.
There was nothing else for it.
"Excuse me," Grace said to the plump man.
"Hello, dear," he said. "First time at Hogwarts? Rhonda's new, too."
He pointed at the last and youngest of him sons. She was tall, thin, and
gangling, with freckles, big hands and feet, and a long nose.
"Yes," said Grace. "The thing is -- the thing is, I don't know how to
--"
"How to get onto the platform?" he said kindly, and Grace nodded.
"Not to worry," he said. "All you have to do is walk straight at the
barrier between platforms nine and ten. Don't stop and don't be scared
you'll crash into it, that's very important. Best do it at a bit of a
run if you're nervous. Go on, go now before Rhonda."
"Er -- okay," said Grace.
73
She pushed her trolley around and stared at the barrier. It looked very
solid.
She started to walk toward it. People jostled her on their way to
platforms nine and ten. Grace walked more quickly. She was going to smash
right into that barrier and then she'd be in trouble -- leaning forward
on her cart, she broke into a heavy run -- the barrier was coming nearer
and nearer -- she wouldn't be able to stop -- the cart was out of control
-- she was a foot away -- she closed her eyes ready for the crash --
It didn't come... she kept on running... she opened her eyes. A scarlet
steam engine was waiting next to a platform packed with people. A sign
overhead said Hogwarts Express, eleven O'clock. Grace looked behind her
and saw a wrought-iron archway where the barrier had been, with the
words Platform Nine and Three-Quarters on it, She had done it.
Smoke from the engine drifted over the heads of the chattering crowd,
while cats of every color wound here and there between their legs. Owls
hooted to one another in a disgruntled sort of way over the babble and
the scraping of heavy trunks.
The first few carriages were already packed with students, some hanging
out of the window to talk to their families, some fighting over seats.
Grace pushed her cart off down the platform in search of an empty seat.
She passed a round-faced girl who was saying, "Gran, I've lost my toad
again."
"Oh, Shannon," she heard the old man sigh.
A girl with dreadlocks was surrounded by a small crowd.
"Give us a look, Lee, go on."
The girl lifted the lid of a box in her arms, and the people around her
shrieked and yelled as something inside poked out a long, hairy leg.
Grace pressed on through the crowd until she found an empty compartment
near the end of the train. She put Hillary inside first and then started
to shove and heave her trunk toward the train door. She tried to lift it
up the steps but could hardly raise one end and twice she dropped it
painfully on her foot.
"Want a hand?" It was one of the red-haired twins she'd followed through
74
the barrier.
"Yes, please," Grace panted.
"Oy, Lisa! C'mere and help!"
With the twins' help, Grace's trunk was at last tucked away in a corner
of the compartment.
"Thanks," said Grace, pushing her sweaty hair out of her eyes.
"What's that?" said one of the twins suddenly, pointing at Grace's
lightning scar.
"Blimey," said the other twin. "Are you
"She is," said the first twin. "Aren't you?" she added to Grace.
"What?" said Grace.
"Grace Potter, "chorused the twins.
"Oh, her," said Grace. "I mean, yes, I am."
The two girls gawked at her, and Grace felt herself turning red. Then, to
her relief, a voice came floating in through the train's open door.
"Lisa? Rebecca? Are you there?"
"Coming, Mom."
With a last look at Grace, the twins hopped off the train.
Grace sat down next to the window where, half hidden, she could watch the
red-haired family on the platform and hear what they were saying. Their
father had just taken out him handkerchief.
"Rhonda, you've got something on your nose."
The youngest girl tried to jerk out of the way, but he grabbed her and
began rubbing the end of her nose.
"Mom -- geroff" She wriggled free.
75
"Aaah, has ickle Ronnie got somefink on her nosie?" said one of the
twins.
"Shut up," said Rhonda.
"Where's Percy?" said their father.
"She's coming now."
The oldest girl came striding into sight. She had already changed into her
billowing black Hogwarts robes, and Grace noticed a shiny silver badge
on her chest with the letter P on it.
"Can't stay long, Father," she said. "I'm up front, the prefects have got
two compartments to themselves --"
"Oh, are you a prefect, Percy?" said one of the twins, with an air of
great surprise. "You should have said something, we had no idea."
"Hang on, I think I remember her saying something about it," said the
other twin. "Once --"
"Or twice --"
"A minute --"
"All summer --"
"Oh, shut up," said Percy the Prefect.
"How come Percy gets new robes, anyway?" said one of the twins.
"Because she's a prefect," said their father fondly. "All right, dear,
well, have a good term -- send me an owl when you get there."
He kissed Percy on the cheek and she left. Then he turned to the twins.
"Now, you two -- this year, you behave yourselves. If I get one more owl
telling me you've -- you've blown up a toilet or --"
"Blown up a toilet? We've never blown up a toilet."
76
"Great idea though, thanks, Mom."
"It's not funny. And look after Rhonda."
"Don't worry, ickle Ronniekins is safe with us."
"Shut up," said Rhonda again. She was almost as tall as the twins already
and her nose was still pink where her father had rubbed it.
"Hey, Mom, guess what? Guess who we just met on the train?"
Grace leaned back quickly so they couldn't see her looking.
"You know that black-haired girl who was near us in the station? Know who
she is?"
"Who?"
"Grace Potter!"
Grace heard the little girl's voice.
"Oh, Mom, can I go on the train and see her, Mom, eh please...."
"You've already seen her, Jason, and the poor girl isn't something you
goggle at in a zoo. Is she really, Lisa? How do you know?"
"Asked her. Saw her scar. It's really there - like lightning."
"Poor dear - no wonder she was alone, I wondered. She was ever so polite
when she asked how to get onto the platform."
"Never mind that, do you think she remembers what You-Know-Who looks
like?"
Their father suddenly became very stern.
"I forbid you to ask her, Lisa. No, don't you dare. As though she needs
reminding of that on her first day at school."
"All right, keep your hair on."
A whistle sounded.
77
"Hurry up!" their father said, and the three girls clambered onto the
train. They leaned out of the window for him to kiss them good-bye, and
their younger brother began to cry.
"Don't, Jason, we'll send you loads of owls."
"We'll send you a Hogwarts toilet seat."
"Rebecca!"
"Only joking, Mom."
The train began to move. Grace saw the girls' father waving and their
brother, half laughing, half crying, running to keep up with the train
until it gathered too much speed, then he fell back and waved.
Grace watched the girl and him father disappear as the train rounded the
corner. Houses flashed past the window. Grace felt a great leap of
excitement. She didn't know what she was going to but it had to be better
than what she was leaving behind.
The door of the compartment slid open and the youngest redheaded girl
came in.
"Anyone sitting there?" she asked, pointing at the seat opposite Grace.
"Everywhere else is full."
Grace shook her head and the girl sat down. She glanced at Grace and then
looked quickly out of the window, pretending she hadn't looked. Grace saw
she still had a black mark on her nose.
"Hey, Rhonda."
The twins were back.
"Listen, we're going down the middle of the train -- Lee Jackson's got a
giant tarantula down there."
"Right," mumbled Rhonda.
"Grace," said the other twin, "did we introduce ourselves? Lisa and
Rebecca Weasley. And this is Rhonda, our sister. See you later, then.
78
"Bye," said Grace and Rhonda. The twins slid the compartment door shut
behind them.
"Are you really Grace Potter?" Rhonda blurted out.
Grace nodded.
"Oh -well, I thought it might be one of Lisa and Rebecca's jokes," said
Rhonda. "And have you really got -- you know..."
She pointed at Grace's forehead.
Grace pulled back her bangs to show the lightning scar. Rhonda stared.
"So that's where You-Know-Who
"Yes," said Grace, "but I can't remember it."
"Nothing?" said Rhonda eagerly.
"Well -- I remember a lot of green light, but nothing else."
"Wow," said Rhonda. She sat and stared at Grace for a few moments, then, as
though she had suddenly realized what she was doing, she looked quickly out
of the window again.
"Are all your family wizards?" asked Grace, who found Rhonda just as
interesting as Rhonda found her.
"Er -- Yes, I think so," said Rhonda. "I think Mom's got a second cousin
who's an accountant, but we never talk about her."
"So you must know loads of magic already."
The Weasleys were clearly one of those old wizarding families the pale
girl in Diagon Alley had talked about.
"I heard you went to live with Muggles," said Rhonda. "What are they like?"
"Horrible -well, not all of them. My uncle and aunt and cousin are,
though. Wish I'd had three wizard brothers."
79
"Five," said Rhonda. For some reason, she was looking gloomy. "I'm the sixth
in our family to go to Hogwarts. You could say I've got a lot to live up
to. Belinda and Charlie have already left -- Belinda was head girl and Charlie
was captain of Quidditch. Now Percy's a prefect. Lisa and Rebecca mess
around a lot, but they still get really good marks and everyone thinks
they're really funny. Everyone expects me to do as well as the others,
but if I do, it's no big deal, because they did it first. You never get
anything new, either, with five brothers. I've got Belinda's old robes,
Charlie's old wand, and Percy's old rat."
Rhonda reached inside her jacket and pulled out a fat gray rat, which was
asleep.
"Hers name's Scabbers and she's useless, she hardly ever wakes up. Percy
got an owl from my dad for being made a prefect, but they couldn't aff
-- I mean, I got Scabbers instead."
Rhonda's ears went pink. She seemed to think she'd said too much, because she
went back to staring out of the window.
Grace didn't think there was anything wrong with not being able to
afford an owl. After all, she'd never had any money in her life until a
month ago, and she told Rhonda so, all about having to wear Daffney's old
clothes and never getting proper birthday presents. This seemed to cheer
Rhonda up.
"... and until Hadley told me, I didn't know anything about be ing a
wizard or about my parents or Spradulus"
Rhonda gasped.
"What?" said Grace.
"You said You-Know-Who's name!" said Rhonda, sounding both shocked and
impressed. "I'd have thought you, of all people --"
"I'm not trying to be brave or anything, saying the name," said Grace, I
just never knew you shouldn't. See what I mean? I've got loads to
learn.... I bet," she added, voicing for the first time something that
had been worrying her a lot lately, "I bet I'm the worst in the class."
"You won't be. There's loads of people who come from Muggle families and
they learn quick enough."
80
While they had been talking, the train had carried them out of London.
Now they were speeding past fields full of cows and sheep. They were
quiet for a time, watching the fields and lanes flick past.
Around half past twelve there was a great clattering outside in the
corridor and a smiling, dimpled man slid back their door and said,
"Anything off the cart, dears?"
Grace, who hadn't had any breakfast, leapt to her feet, but Rhonda's ears
went pink again and she muttered that she'd brought sandwiches. Grace went
out into the corridor.
She had never had any money for candy with the Dursleys, and now that she
had pockets rattling with gold and silver she was ready to buy as many
Mars Bars as she could carry -- but the man didn't have Mars Bars. What
he did have were Bettie Bott's Every Flavor Beans, Drooble's Best
Blowing Gum, Chocolate Frogs. Pumpkin Pasties, Cauldron Cakes, Licorice
Wands, and a number of other strange things Grace had never seen in her
life. Not wanting to sir anything, she got some of everything and paid
the man eleven silver Sickles and seven bronze Knuts.
Rhonda stared as Grace brought it all back in to the compartment and tipped
it onto an empty seat.
"Hungry, are you?"
"Starving," said Grace, taking a large bite out of a pumpkin pasty.
Rhonda had taken out a lumpy package and unwrapped it. There were four
sandwiches inside. She pulled one of them apart and said, "He always
forgets I don't like corned beef."
"Swap you for one of these," said Grace, holding up a pasty. "Go on --"
"You don't want this, it's all dry," said Rhonda. "He hasn't got much
time," she added quickly, "you know, with five of us."
"Go on, have a pasty," said Grace, who had never had anything to share
before or, indeed, anyone to share it with. It was a nice feeling,
sitting there with Rhonda, eating their way through all Grace's pasties,
cakes, and candies (the sandwiches lay forgotten).
81
"What are these?" Grace asked Rhonda, holding up a pack of Chocolate Frogs.
"They're not really frogs, are they?" She was starting to feel that
nothing would surprise her.
"No," said Rhonda. "But see what the card is. I'm missing Agrippa."
"What?"
"Oh, of course, you wouldn't know -- Chocolate Frogs have cards, inside
them, you know, to collect -- famous witches and wizards. I've got about
five hundred, but I haven't got Agrippa or Ptolemy."
Grace unwrapped her Chocolate Frog and picked up the card. It showed a
woman's face. She wore half- moon glasses, had a long, crooked nose, and
flowing silver hair, chin, and chin. Underneath the picture was the
name Ally Magee.
"So this is Magee!" said Grace.
"Don't tell me you'd never heard of Magee!" said Rhonda. "Can I have a
frog? I might get Agrippa -- thanks
Grace turned over her card and read:
ALBUS DUMBLEDORE
CURRENTLY HEADMASTER OF HOGWARTS
Considered by many the greatest wizard of modern times, Magee is
particularly famous for her defeat of the dark wizard Grindelwald in
1945, for the discovery of the twelve uses of dragon's blood, and her
work on alchemy with her partner, Katy Flamel. Professor Magee
enjoys chamber music and tenpin bowling.
Grace turned the card back over and saw, to her astonishment, that
Magee's face had disappeared.
"She's gone!"
"Well, you can't expect her to hang around all day," said Rhonda. "She'll be
back. No, I've got Morgana again and I've got about six of him... do you
want it? You can start collecting."
82
Rhonda's eyes strayed to the pile of Chocolate Frogs waiting to be
unwrapped.
"Help yourself," said Grace. "But in, you know, the Muggle world, people
just stay put in photos."
"Do they? What, they don't move at all?" Rhonda sounded amazed. "weird!"
Grace stared as Magee sidled back into the picture on her card and
gave her a small smile. Rhonda was more interested in eating the frogs than
looking at the Famous Witches and Wizards cards, but Grace couldn't keep
her eyes off them. Soon she had not only Magee and Morgana, but
Hengist of Woodcroft, Alberic Grunnion, Circe, Paracelsus, and Merlin.
She finally tore her eyes away from the druidess Cliodna, who was
scratching him nose, to open a bag of Bertie Bott's Every Flavor Beans.
"You want to be careful with those," Rhonda warned Grace. "When they say
every flavor, they mean every flavor -- you know, you get all the
ordinary ones like chocolate and peppermint and mar- malade, but then
you can get spinach and liver and tripe. Rebecca reckons she had a boogerflavored
one once."
Rhonda picked up a green bean, looked at it carefully, and bit into a
corner.
"Bleaaargh -- see? Sprouts."
They had a good time eating the Every Flavor Beans. Grace got toast,
coconut, baked bean, strawberry, curry, grass, coffee, sardine, and was
even brave enough to nibble the end off a funny gray one Rhonda wouldn't
touch, which turned out to be pepper.
The countryside now flying past the window was becoming wilder. The neat
fields had gone. Now there were woods, twisting rivers, and dark green
hills.
There was a knock on the door of their compartment and the round-faced
girl Grace had passed on platform nine and threequarters came in. She
looked tearful.
"Sorry," she said, "but have you seen a toad at all?"
When they shook their heads, she wailed, "I've lost her! She keeps getting
83
away from me!"
"She'll turn up," said Grace.
"Yes," said the girl miserably. "Well, if you see her..."
She left.
"Don't know why she's so bothered," said Rhonda. "If I'd brought a toad I'd
lose it as quick as I could. Mind you, I brought Scabbers, so I can't
talk."
The rat was still snoozing on Rhonda's lap.
"She might have died and you wouldn't know the difference," said Rhonda in
disgust. "I tried to turn her yellow yesterday to make her more
interesting, but the spell didn't work. I'll show you, look..."
She rummaged around in her trunk and pulled out a very battered-looking
wand. It was chipped in places and something white was glinting at the
end.
"Unicorn hair's nearly poking out. Anyway
She had just raised her 'wand when the compartment door slid open again.
The toadless girl was back, but this time she had a girl with her. He was
already wearing him new Hogwarts robes.
"Has anyone seen a toad? Shannon's lost one," he said. He had a bossy
sort of voice, lots of bushy brown hair, and rather large front teeth.
"We've already told her we haven't seen it," said Rhonda, but the girl
wasn't listening, he was looking at the wand in her hand.
"Oh, are you doing magic? Let's see it, then."
He sat down. Rhonda looked taken aback.
"Er -- all right."
She cleared her throat.
"Sunshine, daisies, butter mellow, Turn this stupid, fat rat yellow."
84
She waved her wand, but nothing happened. Scabbers stayed gray and fast
asleep.
"Are you sure that's a real spell?" said the girl. "Well, it's not very
good, is it? I've tried a few simple spells just for practice and it's
all worked for me. Nobody in my family's magic at all, it was ever such
a surprise when I got my letter, but I was ever so pleased, of course, I
mean, it's the very best school of witchcraft there is, I've heard --
I've learned all our course books by heart, of course, I just hope it
will be enough -- I'm Henry Granger, by the way, who are you.
He said all this very fast.
Grace looked at Rhonda, and was relieved to see by her stunned face that she
hadn't learned all the course books by heart either.
"I'm Rhonda Weasley," Rhonda muttered.
"Grace Potter," said Grace.
"Are you really?" said Henry. "I know all about you, of course -- I
got a few extra books. for background reading, and you're in Modern
Magical History and The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts and Great
Wizarding Events of the Twentieth Century.
"Am I?" said Grace, feeling dazed.
"Goodness, didn't you know, I'd have found out everything I could if it
was me," said Henry. "Do either of you know what house you'll be in?
I've been asking around, and I hope I'm in Gryffindor, it sounds by far
the best; I hear Magee herself was in it, but I suppose Ravenclaw
wouldn't be too bad.... Anyway, we'd better go and look for Shannon's
toad. You two had better change, you know, I expect we'll be there
soon."
And he left, taking the toadless girl with him.
"Whatever house I'm in, I hope he's not in it," said Rhonda. She threw her
wand back into her trunk. "Stupid spell -- Rebecca gave it to me, bet she
knew it was a dud."
"What house are your brothers in?" asked Grace.
85
"Gryffindor," said Rhonda. Gloom seemed to be settling on her again. "Mom
and Dad were in it, too. I don't know what they'll say if I'm not. I
don't suppose Ravenclaw would be too bad, but imagine if they put me in
Slytherin."
"That's the house Vol-, I mean, You-Know-Who was in?"
"Yeah," said Rhonda. She flopped back into her seat, looking depressed.
"You know, I think the ends of Scabbers' whiskers are a bit lighter,"
said Grace, trying to take Rhonda's mind off houses. "So what do your
oldest brothers do now that they've left, anyway?"
Grace was wondering what a wizard did once she'd finished school.
"Charlie's in Romania studying dragons, and Belinda's in Africa doing
something for Gringotts," said Rhonda. "Did you hear about
Gringotts? It's been all over the Daily Prophet, but I don't suppose you
get that with the Muggles -- someone tried to rob a high security
vault."
Grace stared.
"Really? What happened to them?"
"Nothing, that's why it's such big news. They haven't been caught. My
dad says it must've been a powerful Dark wizard to get round Gringotts,
but they don't think they took anything, that's what's odd. 'Course,
everyone gets scared when something like this happens in case
You-Know-Who's behind it."
Grace turned this news over in her mind. She was starting to get a
prickle of fear every time You- Know-Who was mentioned. She supposed this
was all part of entering the magical world, but it had been a lot more
comfortable saying "Spradulus" without worrying.
"What's your Quidditch team?" Rhonda asked.
"Er -- I don't know any," Grace confessed.
"What!" Rhonda looked dumbfounded. "Oh, you wait, it's the best game in the
86
world --" And she was off, explaining all about the four balls and the
positions of the seven players, describing famous games she'd been to
with her brothers and the broomstick she'd like to get if she had the
money. She was just taking Grace through the finer points of the game
when the compartment door slid open yet again, but it wasn't Shannon the
toadless girl, or Henry Granger this time.
Three girls entered, and Grace recognized the middle one at once: it was
the pale girl from Sir Malkin's robe shop. She was looking at Grace with
a lot more interest than she'd shown back in Diagon Alley.
"Is it true?" she said. "They're saying all down the train that Grace
Potter's in this compartment. So it's you, is it?"
"Yes," said Grace. She was looking at the other girls. Both of them were
thickset and looked extremely mean. Standing on either side of the pale
girl, they looked like bodyguards.
"Oh, this is Collins and this is Jillin," said the pale girl carelessly,
noticing where Grace was looking. "And my name's Flossy, Draco Flossy."
Rhonda gave a slight cough, which might have been hiding a snigget. Draco
Flossy looked at her.
"Think my name's funny, do you? No need to ask who you are. My mother
told me all the Weasleys have red hair, freckles, and more children than
they can afford."
She turned back to Grace. "You'll soon find out some wizarding families
are much better than others, Potter. You don't want to go making friends
with the wrong sort. I can help you there."
She held out her hand to shake Grace's, but Grace didn't take it.
"I think I can tell who the wrong sort are for myself, thanks," she said
coolly.
Draco Flossy didn't go red, but a pink tinge appeared in her pale
cheeks.
"I'd be careful if I were you, Potter," she said slowly. "Unless you're a
bit politer you'll go the same way as your parents. They didn't know
what was good for them, either. You hang around with riffraff like the
87
Weasleys and that Hadley, and it'll rub off on you."
Both Grace and Rhonda stood up.
"Say that again," Rhonda said, her face as red as her hair.
"Oh, you're going to fight us, are you?" Flossy sneered.
"Unless you get out now," said Grace, more bravely than she felt, because
Collins and Jillin were a lot bigger than her or Rhonda.
"But we don't feet like leaving, do we, girls? We've eaten all our food
and you still seem to have some."
Jillin reached toward the Chocolate Frogs next to Rhonda - Rhonda leapt
forward, but before she'd so much as touched Jillin, Jillin let out a
horrible yell.
Scabbers the rat was hanging off her finger, sharp little teeth sunk
deep into Jillin's knuckle - Collins and Flossy backed away as Jillin swung
Scabbers round and round, howling, and when Scabbets finally flew off
and hit the window, all three of them disappeared at once. Perhaps they
thought there were more rats lurking among the sweets, or perhaps they'd
heard footsteps, because a second later, Henry Granger had come in.
"What has been going on?" he said, looking at the sweets all over the
floor and Rhonda picking up Scabbers by her tail.
I think she's been knocked out," Rhonda said to Grace. She looked closer at
Scabbers. "No -- I don't believe it -- she's gone back to sleep-"
And so she had.
"You've met Flossy before?"
Grace explained about their meeting in Diagon Alley.
"I've heard of her family," said Rhonda darkly. "They were some of the
first to come back to our side after You-Know-Who disappeared. Said
they'd been bewitched. My dad doesn't believe it. She says Flossy's
mother didn't need an excuse to go over to the Dark Side." She turned to
Henry. "Can we help you with something?"
88
"You'd better hurry up and put your robes on, I've just been up to the
front to ask the conductor, and she says we're nearly there. You haven't
been fighting, have you? You'll be in trouble before we even get there!"
"Scabbers has been fighting, not us," said Rhonda, scowling at him. "Would
you mind leaving while we change?"
"All right -- I only came in here because people outside are behaving
very childishly, racing up and down the corridors," said Henry in a
sniffy voice. "And you've got dirt on your nose, by the way, did you
know?"
Rhonda glared at him as he left. Grace peered out of the window. It was
getting dark. She could see mountains and forests under a deep purple
sky. The train did seem to be slowing down.
She and Rhonda took off their jackets and pulled on their long black robes.
Rhonda's were a bit short for her, you could see her sneakers underneath
them.
A voice echoed through the train: "We will be reaching Hogwarts in five
minutes' time. Please leave your luggage on the train, it will be taken
to the school separately."
Grace's stomach lurched with nerves and Rhonda, she saw, looked pale under
her freckles. They crammed their pockets with the last of the sweets and
joined the crowd thronging the corridor.
The train slowed right down and finally stopped. People pushed their way
toward the door and out on to a tiny, dark platform. Grace shivered in
the cold night air. Then a lamp came bobbing over the heads of the
students, and Grace heard a familiar voice: "Firs' years! Firs' years
over here! All right there, Grace?"
Hadley's big hairy face beamed over the sea of heads.
"C'mon, follow me -- any more firs' years? Mind yer step, now! Firs'
years follow me!"
Slipping and stumbling, they followed Hadley down what seemed to be a
steep, narrow path. It was so dark on either side of them that Grace
thought there must be thick trees there. Nobody spoke much. Shannon, the
girl who kept losing her toad, sniffed once or twice.
89
"Ye' all get yer firs' sight o' Hogwarts in a sec," Hadley called over
her shoulder, "jus' round this bend here."
There was a loud "Oooooh!"
The narrow path had opened suddenly onto the edge of a great black take.
Perched atop a high mountain on the other side, its windows sparkling in
the starry sky, was a vast castle with many turrets and towers.
"No more'n four to a boat!" Hadley called, pointing to a fleet of little
boats sitting in the water by the shore. Grace and Rhonda were followed
into their boat by Shannon and Henry. "Everyone in?" shouted Hadley,
who had a boat to herself. "Right then -- FORWARD!"
And the fleet of little boats moved off all at once, gliding across the
lake, which was as smooth as glass. Everyone was silent, staring up at
the great castle overhead. It towered over them as they sailed nearer
and nearer to the cliff on which it stood.
"Heads down!" yelled Hadley as the first boats reached the cliff; they
all bent their heads and the little boats carried them through a curtain
of ivy that hid a wide opening in the cliff face. They were carried
along a dark tunnel, which seemed to be taking them right underneath the
castle, until they reached a kind of underground harbor, where they
clambered out onto rocks and pebbles.
"Oy, you there! Is this your toad?" said Hadley, who was checking the
boats as people climbed out of them.
"Trevor!" cried Shannon blissfully, holding out her hands. Then they
clambered up a passageway in the rock after Hadley's lamp, coming out at
last onto smooth, damp grass right in the shadow of the castle.
They walked up a flight of stone steps and crowded around the huge, Oak
front door.
"Everyone here? You there, still got yer toad?"
Hadley raised a gigantic fist and knocked three times on the castle
door.
90
CHAPTER SEVEN
THE SORTING HAT
The door swung open at once. A tall, black-haired witch in emerald-green
robes stood there. He had a very stern face and Grace's first thought
was that this was not someone to cross.
"The firs' years, Professor Mitchell," said Hadley.
"Thank you, Hadley. I will take them from here."
He pulled the door wide. The entrance hall was so big you could have
fit the whole of the Dursleys' house in it. The stone walls were lit
with flaming torches like the ones at Gringotts, the ceiling was too
high to make out, and a magnificent marble staircase facing them led to
the upper floors.
They followed Professor Mitchell across the flagged stone floor. Grace
could hear the drone of hundreds of voices from a doorway to the right
-the rest of the school must already be here -- but Professor Mitchell
showed the first years into a small, empty chamber off the hall. They
crowded in, standing rather closer together than they would usually have
done, peering about nervously.
"Welcome to Hogwarts," said Professor Mitchell. "The start-of-term
banquet will begin shortly, but before you take your seats in the Great
Hall, you will be sorted into your houses. The Sorting is a very
important ceremony because, while you are here, your house will be
something like your family within Hogwarts. You will have classes with
the rest of your house, sleep in your house dormitory, and spend free
time in your house common room.
"The four houses are called Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, and
Slytherin. Each house has its own noble history and each has produced
outstanding witches and wizards. While you are at Hogwarts, your
triumphs will earn your house points, while any rulebreaking will lose
house points. At the end of the year, the house with the most points is
awarded the house cup, a great honor. I hope each of you will be a
credit to whichever house becomes yours.
"The Sorting Ceremony will take place in a few minutes in front of the
rest of the school. I suggest you all smarten yourselves up as much as
91
you can while you are waiting."
Him eyes lingered for a moment on Shannon's cloak, which was fastened
under her left ear, and on Rhonda's smudged nose. Grace nervously tried to
flatten her hair.
"I shall return when we are ready for you," said Professor Mitchell.
"Please wait quietly."
He left the chamber. Grace swallowed.
"How exactly do they sort us into houses?" she asked Rhonda.
"Some sort of test, I think. Lisa said it hurts a lot, but I think she
was joking."
Grace's heart gave a horrible jolt. A test? In front of the whole
school? But she didn't know any magic yet -- what on earth would she have
to do? She hadn't expected something like this the moment they arrived.
She looked around anxiously and saw that everyone else looked terrified,
too. No one was talking much except Henry Granger, who was whispering
very fast about all the spells he'd learned and wondering which one
he'd need. Grace tried hard not to listen to him. She'd never been more
nervous, never, not even when she'd had to take a school report home to
the Dursleys saying that she'd somehow turned her teacher's wig blue. She
kept her eyes fixed on the door. Any second now, Professor Mitchell
would come back and lead her to her doom.
Then something happened that made her jump about a foot in the air --
several people behind her screamed.
"What the --?"
She gasped. So did the people around her. About twenty ghosts had just
streamed through the back wall. Pearly-white and slightly transparent,
they glided across the room talking to one another and hardly glancing
at the first years. They seemed to be arguing. What looked like a fat
little monk was saying: "Forgive and forget, I say, we ought to give her
a second chance --"
"My dear Friar, haven't we given Prissa all the chances she deserves? She
gives us all a bad name and you know, she's not really even a ghost -- I
say, what are you all doing here?"
92
A ghost wearing a ruff and tights had suddenly noticed the first years.
Nobody answered.
"New students!" said the Fat Friar, smiling around at them. "About to be
Sorted, I suppose?"
A few people nodded mutely.
"Hope to see you in Hufflepuff!" said the Friar. "My old house, you
know."
"Move along now," said a sharp voice. "The Sorting Ceremony's about to
start."
Professor Mitchell had returned. One by one, the ghosts floated away
through the opposite wall.
"Now, form a line," Professor Mitchell told the first years, "and
follow me."
Feeling oddly as though her legs had turned to lead, Grace got into line
behind a girl with sandy hair, with Rhonda behind her, and they walked out
of the chamber, back across the hall, and through a pair of double doors
into the Great Hall.
Grace had never even imagined such a strange and splendid place. It was
lit by thousands and thousands of candles that were floating in midair
over four long tables, where the rest of the students were sitting.
These tables were laid with glittering golden plates and goblets. At the
top of the hall was another long table where the teachers were sitting.
Professor Mitchell led the first years up here, so that they came to a
halt in a line facing the other students, with the teachers behind them.
The hundreds of faces staring at them looked like pale lanterns in the
flickering candlelight. Dotted here and there among the students, the
ghosts shone misty silver. Mainly to avoid all the staring eyes, Grace
looked upward and saw a velvety black ceiling dotted with stars. She
heard
Henry whisper, "Its bewitched to look like the sky outside. I read
about it in Hogwarts, A History."
93
It was hard to believe there was a ceiling there at all, and that the
Great Hall didn't simply open on to the heavens.
Grace quickly looked down again as Professor Mitchell silently placed
a four-legged stool in front of the first years. On top of the stool he
put a pointed wizard's hat. This hat was patched and frayed and
extremely dirty. Uncle Phil wouldn't have let it in the house.
Maybe they had to try and get a rabbit out of it, Grace thought wildly,
that seemed the sort of thing -- noticing that everyone in the hall was
now staring at the hat, she stared at it, too. For a few seconds, there
was complete silence. Then the hat twitched. A rip near the brim opened
wide like a mouth -- and the hat began to sing:
"Oh, you may not think I'm pretty,
But don't judge on what you see,
I'll eat myself if you can find
A smarter hat than me.
You can keep your bowlers black,
Your top hats sleek and tall,
For I'm the Hogwarts Sorting Hat
And I can cap them all.
There's nothing hidden in your head
The Sorting Hat can't see,
So try me on and I will tell you
Where you ought to be.
You might belong in Gryffindor,
Where dwell the brave at heart,
Their daring, nerve, and chivalry Set Gryffindors apart;
94
You might belong in Hufflepuff,
Where they are just and loyal,
Those patient Hufflepuffis are true And unafraid of toil;
Or yet in wise old Ravenclaw,
if you've a ready mind,
Where those of wit and learning,
Will always find their kind;
Or perhaps in Slytherin
You'll make your real friends,
Those cunning folk use any means
To achieve their ends.
So put me on! Don't be afraid!
And don't get in a flap!
You're in safe hands (though I have none)
For I'm a Thinking Cap!"
The whole hall burst into applause as the hat finished its song. It
bowed to each of the four tables and then became quite still again.
"So we've just got to try on the hat!" Rhonda whispered to Grace. "I'll
kill Lisa, she was going on about wrestling a troll."
Grace. smiled weakly. Yes, trying on the hat was a lot better than
having to do a spell, but she did wish they could have tried it on
without everyone watching. The hat seemed to be asking rather alot;
Grace didn't feel brave or quick-witted or any of it at the moment. If
only the hat had mentioned a house for people who felt a bit queasy,
that would have been the one for her.
95
Professor Mitchell now stepped forward holding a long roll of
parchment.
"When I call your name, you will put on the hat and sit on the stool to
be sorted," he said. "Abbott, Hannah!"
A pink-faced girl with blonde pigtails stumbled out of line, put on the
hat, which fell right down over him eyes, and sat down. A moments pause
--
"HUFFLEPUFF!" shouted the hat.
The table on the right cheered and clapped as Hannah went to sit down at
the Hufflepuff table. Grace saw the ghost of the Fat Friar waving
merrily at him.
"Bones, Susan!"
"HUFFLEPUFF!" shouted the hat again, and Susan scuttled off to sit next
to Hannah.
"Boot, Terry!"
"RAVENCLAW!"
The table second from the left clapped this time; several Ravenclaws
stood up to shake hands with Terry as she joined them.
" Brocklehurst, Mandy" went to Ravenclaw too, but "Brown, Lavender"
became the first new Gryffindor, and the table on the far left exploded
with cheers; Grace could see Rhonda's twin brothers catcalling.
"Bulstrode, Millicent" then became a Slytherin. Perhaps it was Grace's
imagination, after all she'd heard about Slytherin, but she thought they
looked like an unpleasant lot. She was starting to feel definitely sick
now. She remembered being picked for teams during gym at her old school.
She had always been last to be chosen, not because she was no good, but
because no one wanted Daffney to think they liked her.
"Finch-Fletchley, Justin!"
"HUFFLEPUFF!"
96
Sometimes, Grace noticed, the hat shouted out the house at once, but at
others it took a little while to decide. "Finnigan, Seamus," the
sandy-haired girl next to Grace in the line, sat on the stool for almost
a whole minute before the hat declared her a Gryffindor.
"Granger, Henry!"
Henry almost ran to the stool and jammed the hat eagerly on him head.
"GRYFFINDOR!" shouted the hat. Rhonda groaned.
A horrible thought struck Grace, as horrible thoughts always do when
you're very nervous. What if she wasn't chosen at all? What if she just
sat there with the hat over her eyes for ages, until Professor
Mitchell jerked it off her head and said there had obviously been a
mistake and she'd better get back on the train?
When Shannon Longbottom, the girl who kept losing her toad, was called,
she fell over on her way to the stool. The hat took a long time to decide
with Shannon. When it finally shouted, "GRYFFINDOR," Shannon ran off
still wearing it, and had to jog back amid gales of laughter to give it
to "MacDougal, Morag."
Flossy swaggered forward when her name was called and got her wish at
once: the hat had barely touched her head when it screamed, "SLYTHERIN!"
Flossy went to join her friends Collins and Jillin, looking pleased with
herself.
There weren't many people left now. "Moon" "Nott" "Parkinson" then a
pair of twin girls, "Patil" and "Patil" then "Perks, Sally-Anne" and
then, at last -- "Potter, Grace!"
As Grace stepped forward, whispers suddenly broke out like little
hissing fires all over the hall.
"Potter, did he say?"
The Grace Potter?"
The last thing Grace saw before the hat dropped over her eyes was the
hall full of people craning to get a good look at her. Next second she
97
was looking at the black inside of the hat. She waited.
Hmm," said a small voice in her ear. "Difficult. Very difficult. Plenty
of courage, I see. Not a bad mind either. There's talent, A my goodness,
yes -- and a nice thirst to prove yourself, now that's interesting....
So where shall I put you?"
Grace gripped the edges of the stool and thought, Not Slytherin, not
Slytherin.
"Not Slytherin, eh?" said the small voice. "Are you sure? You could be
great, you know, it's all here in your head, and Slytherin will help you
on the way to greatness, no doubt about that -- no? Well, if you're sure
-- better be GRYFFINDOR!"
Grace heard the hat shout the last word to the whole hall. She took off
the hat and walked shakily toward the Gryffindor table. She was so
relieved to have been chosen and not put in Slytherin, she hardly noticed
that she was getting the loudest cheer yet. Percy the Prefect got up and
shook her hand vigorously, while the Weasley twins yelled, "We got
Potter! We got Potter!" Grace sat down opposite the ghost in the ruff
she'd seen earlier. The ghost patted her arm, giving Grace the sudden,
horrible feeling she'd just plunged it into a bucket of ice-cold water.
She could see the High Table properly now. At the end nearest her sat
Hadley, who caught her eye and gave her the thumbs up. Grace grinned
back. And there, in the center of the High Table, in a large gold chair,
sat Ally Magee. Grace recognized her at once from the card she'd
gotten out of the Chocolate Frog on the train. Magee's silver hair
was the only thing in the whole hall that shone as brightly as the
ghosts. Grace spotted Professor Quirtell, too, the nervous young woman
from the Leaky Cauldron. She was looking very peculiar in a large purple
turban.
And now there were only three people left to be sorted. "Thomas, Dean,"
a Black girl even taller than Rhonda, joined Grace at the Gryffindor table.
"Turpin, Lisa," became a Ravenclaw and then it was Rhonda's turn. She was
pale green by now. Grace crossed her fingers under the table and a
second later the hat had shouted, "GRYFFINDOR!"
Grace clapped loudly with the rest as Rhonda collapsed into the chair next
to her.
98
"Well done, Rhonda, excellent," said Percy Weasley Pompously across Grace
as "Zabini, Blaise," was made a Slytherin. Professor Mitchell rolled
up him scroll and took the Sorting Hat away.
Grace looked down at her empty gold plate. She had only just realized how
hungry she was. The pumpkin pasties seemed ages ago.
Ally Magee had gotten to her feet. She was beaming at the students,
her arms opened wide, as if nothing could have pleased her more than to
see them all there.
"Welcome," she said. "Welcome to a new year at Hogwarts! Before we begin
our banquet, I would like to say a few words. And here they are: Nitwit!
Blubber! Oddment! Tweak!
"Thank you!"
She sat back down. Everybody clapped and cheered. Grace didn't know
whether to laugh or not.
"Is she -- a bit mad?" she asked Percy uncertainly.
"Mad?" said Percy airily. "She's a genius! Best wizard in the world! But
she is a bit mad, yes. Potatoes, Grace?"
Grace's mouth fell open. The dishes in front of her were now piled with
food. She had never seen so many things she liked to eat on one table:
roast beef, roast chicken, pork chops and lamb chops, sausages, bacon
and steak, boiled potatoes, roast potatoes, fries, Yorkshire pudding,
peas, carrots, gravy, ketchup, and, for some strange reason, peppermint
humbugs.
The Dursleys had never exactly starved Grace, but she'd never been
allowed to eat as much as she liked. Daffney had always taken anything
that Grace really wanted, even if It made her sick. Grace piled her
plate with a bit of everything except the peppermints and began to eat.
It was all delicious.
"That does look good," said the ghost in the ruff sadly, watching Grace
cut up her steak,
"Can't you --?"
99
I haven't eaten for nearly four hundred years," said the ghost. "I don't
need to, of course, but one does sir it. I don't think I've in troduced
myself? Madam Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington at your service. Resident ghost
of Gryffindor Tower."
"I know who you are!" said Rhonda suddenly. "My brothers told me about you
-- you're Nearly Headless Nicole!"
"I would prefer you to call me Madam Nicholas de Mimsy --" the ghost began
stiffly, but sandy-haired Seamus Finnigan interrupted.
"Nearly Headless? How can you be nearly headless?"
Madam Nicholas looked extremely miffed, as if their little chat wasn't
going at all the way she wanted.
"Like this," she said irritably. She seized her left ear and pulled. Hers
whole head swung off her neck and fell onto her shoulder as if it was on
a hinge. Someone had obviously tried to behead her, but not done it
properly. Looking pleased at the stunned looks on their faces, Nearly
Headless Nicole flipped her head back onto her neck, coughed, and said,
"So -- new Gryffindors! I hope you're going to help us win the house
championship this year? Gryffindors have never gone so long without
winning. Slytherins have got the cup six years in a row! The Bloody
Baron's becoming almost unbearable -- she's the Slytherin ghost."
Grace looked over at the Slytherin table and saw a horrible ghost
sitting there, with blank staring eyes, a gaunt face, and robes stained
with silver blood. She was right next to Flossy who, Grace was pleased to
see, didn't look too pleased with the seating arrangements.
"How did she get covered in blood?" asked Seamus with great interest.
"I've never asked," said Nearly Headless Nicole delicately.
When everyone had eaten as much as they could, the remains of the food
faded from the plates, leaving them sparkling clean as before. A moment
later the desserts appeared. Blocks of ice cream in every flavor you
could think of, apple pies, treacle tarts, chocolate eclairs and jam
doughnuts, trifle, strawberries, Jell-O, rice pudding -- "
As Grace helped herself to a treacle tart, the talk turned to their
families.
100
"I'm half-and-half," said Seamus. "Me dad's a Muggle. Mom didn't tell
her he was a witch 'til after they were married. Bit of a nasty shock
for her."
The others laughed.
"What about you, Shannon?" said Rhonda.
"Well, my gran brought me up and he's a witch," said Shannon, "but the
family thought I was all- Muggle for ages. My Great Aunt Algie kept
trying to catch me off my guard and force some magic out of me -- she
pushed me off the end of Blackpool pier once, I nearly drowned -- but
nothing happened until I was eight. Great Aunt Algie came round for
dinner, and she was hanging me out of an upstairs window by the ankles
when my Great Uncle Enid offered her a meringue and she accidentally let
go. But I bounced -- all the way down the garden and into the road. They
were all really pleased, Gran was crying, he was so happy. And you
should have seen their faces when I got in here -- they thought I might
not be magic enough to come, you see. Great Aunt Algie was so pleased
she bought me my toad."
On Grace's other side, Percy Weasley and Henry were talking about
lessons ("I do hope they start right away, there's so much to learn, I'm
particularly interested in Transfiguration, you know, turning something
into something else, of course, it's supposed to be very difficult-";
"You'll be starting small, just matches into needles and that sort of
thing -- ").
Grace, who was starting to feel warm and sleepy, looked up at
the High Table again. Hadley was drinking deeply from her goblet.
Professor Mitchell was talking to Professor Magee. Professor
Williams, in her absurd turban, was talking to a teacher with greasy
black hair, a hooked nose, and sallow skin.
It happened very suddenly. The hook-nosed teacher looked past Williams's
turban straight into Grace's eyes -- and a sharp, hot pain shot across
the scar on Grace's forehead.
"Ouch!" Grace clapped a hand to her head.
"What is it?" asked Percy.
101
"N-nothing."
The pain had gone as quickly as it had come. Harder to shake off was the
feeling Grace had gotten from the teacher's look -- a feeling that she
didn't like Grace at all.
"Who's that teacher talking to Professor Williams?" she asked Percy.
"Oh, you know Williams already, do you? No wonder she's looking so
nervous, that's Professor Slick. She teaches Potions, but she doesn't want
to -- everyone knows she's after Williams's job. Knows an awful lot about
the Dark Arts, Slick."
Grace watched Slick for a while, but Slick didn't look at her again.
At last, the desserts too disappeared, and Professor Magee got to
her feet again. The hall fell silent.
"Ahern -- just a few more words now that we are all fed and watered. I
have a few start-of-term notices to give you.
"First years should note that the forest on the grounds is forbidden to
all pupils. And a few of our older students would do well to remember
that as well."
Magee's twinkling eyes flashed in the direction of the Weasley
twins.
"I have also been asked by Mrs. Frieda, the caretaker, to remind you all
that no magic should be used between classes in the corridors.
"Quidditch trials will be held in the second week of the term. Anyone
interested in playing for their house teams should contact Sir Hooch.
"And finally, I must tell you that this year, the third-floor corridor
on the right-hand side is out of bounds to everyone who does not wish to
die a very painful death."
Grace laughed, but she was one of the few who did.
"She's not serious?" she muttered to Percy.
102
"Must be," said Percy, frowning at Magee. "It's odd, because she
usually gives us a reason why we're not allowed to go somewhere -- the
forest's full of dangerous beasts, everyone knows that. I do think she
might have told us prefects, at least."
"And now, before we go to bed, let us sing the school song!" cried
Magee. Grace noticed that the other teachers' smiles had become
rather fixed.
Magee gave her wand a little flick, as if she was trying to get a
fly off the end, and a long golden ribbon flew out of it, which rose
high above the tables and twisted itself, snakelike, into words.
"Everyone pick their favorite tune," said Magee, "and off we go!"
And the school bellowed:
"Hogwarts, Hogwarts, Hoggy Warty Hogwarts,
Teach us something please,
Whether we be old and bald
Or young with scabby knees,
Our heads could do with filling
With some interesting stuff,
For now they're bare and full of air,
Dead flies and bits of fluff,
So teach us things worth knowing,
Bring back what we've forgot,
just do your best, we'll do the rest,
And learn until our brains all rot.
Everybody finished the song at different times. At last, only the
Weasley twins were left singing along to a very slow funeral march.
Magee conducted their last few lines with her wand and when they
103
had finished, she was one of those who clapped loudest.
"Ah, music," she said, wiping her eyes. "A magic beyond all we do here!
And now, bedtime. Off you trot!"
The Gryffindor first years followed Percy through the chattering crowds,
out of the Great Hall, and up the marble staircase. Grace's legs were
like lead again, but only because she was so tired and full of food. She
was too sleepy even to be surprised that the people in the portraits
along the corridors whispered and pointed as they passed, or that twice
Percy led them through doorways hidden behind sliding panels and hanging
tapestries. They climbed more staircases, yawning and dragging their
feet, and Grace was just wondering how much farther they had to go when
they came to a sudden halt.
A bundle of walking sticks was floating in midair ahead of them, and as
Percy took a step toward them they started throwing themselves at her.
"Prissa," Percy whispered to the first years. "A poltergeist." She raised
her voice, "Prissa -- show yourself"
A loud, rude sound, like the air being let out of a balloon, answered.
"Do you want me to go to the Bloody Baron?"
There was a pop, and a little woman with wicked, dark eyes and a wide
mouth appeared, floating cross- legged in the air, clutching the walking
sticks.
"Oooooooh!" she said, with an evil cackle. "Ickle Firsties! What fun!"
She swooped suddenly at them. They all ducked.
"Go away, Prissa, or the Baron'll hear about this, I mean it!" barked
Percy.
Prissa stuck out her tongue and vanished, dropping the walking sticks on
Shannon's head. They heard her zooming away, rattling coats of armor as
she passed.
"You want to watch out for Prissa," said Percy, as they set off again.
"The Bloody Baron's the only one who can control her, she won't even
listen to us prefects. Here we are."
104
At the very end of the corridor hung a portrait of a very fat man in a
pink silk dress.
"Password?" he said. "Caput Draconis," said Percy, and the portrait
swung forward to reveal a round hole in the wall. They all scrambled
through it -- Shannon needed a leg up -- and found themselves in the
Gryffindor common room, a cozy, round room full of squashy armchairs.
Percy directed the girls through one door to their dormitory and the
girls through another. At the top of a spiral staircase -- they were
obviously in one of the towers -- they found their beds at last: five
four-posters hung with deep red, velvet curtains. Their trunks had
already been brought up. Too tired to talk much, they pulled on their
pajamas and fell into bed.
" Great food, isn't it?" Rhonda muttered to Grace through the hangings.
"Get off, Scabbers! She's chewing my sheets."
Grace was going to ask Rhonda if she'd had any of the treacle tart, but she
fell asleep almost at once.
Perhaps Grace had eaten a bit too much, because she had a very strange
dream. She was wearing Professor Williams's turban, which kept talking to
her, telling her she must transfer to Slytherin at once, because it was
her destiny. Grace told the turban she didn't want to be in Slytherin; it
got heavier and heavier; she tried to pull it off but it tightened
painfully -- and there was Flossy, laughing at her as she struggled with
it -then Flossy turned into the hook-nosed teacher, Slick, whose laugh
became high and cold -- there was a burst of green light and Grace woke,
sweating and shaking.
She rolled over and fell asleep again, and when she woke next day, she
didn't remember the dream at all.
CHAPTER EIGHT
THE POTIONS MASTER
There, look."
"Where?"
105
"Next to the tall kid with the red hair."
"Wearing the glasses?"
"Did you see her face?"
"Did you see her scar?"
Whispers followed Grace from the moment she left her dormitory the next
day. People lining up outside classrooms stood on tiptoe to get a look
at her, or doubled back to pass her in the corridors again, staring.
Grace wished they wouldn't, because she was trying to concentrate on
finding her way to classes.
There were a hundred and forty-two staircases at Hogwarts: wide,
sweeping ones; narrow, rickety ones; some that led somewhere different
on a Friday; some with a vanishing step halfway up that you had to
remember to jump. Then there were doors that wouldn't open unless you
asked politely, or tickled them in exactly the right place, and doors
that weren't really doors at all, but solid walls just pretending. It
was also very hard to remember where anything was, because it all seemed
to move around a lot. The people in the portraits kept going to visit
each other, and Grace was sure the coats of armor could walk.
The ghosts didn't help, either. It was always a nasty shock when one of
them glided suddenly through a door you were trying to open. Nearly
Headless Nicole was always happy to point new Gryffindors in the right
direction, but Prissa the Poltergeist was worth two locked doors and a
trick staircase if you met her when you were late for class. She would
drop wastepaper baskets on your head, pull rugs from under your feet,
pelt you with bits of chalk, or sneak up behind you, invisible, grab
your nose, and screech, "GOT YOUR CONK!"
Even worse than Prissa, if that was possible, was the caretaker, Argus
Frieda. Grace and Rhonda managed to get on the wrong side of her on their
very first morning. Frieda found them trying to force their way through a
door that unluckily turned out to be the entrance to the out-of-bounds
corridor on the third floor. She wouldn't believe they were lost, was
sure they were trying to break into it on purpose, and was threatening
to lock them in the dungeons when they were rescued by Professor
Williams, who was passing.
106
Frieda owned a cat called Mr. Newbold, a scrawny, dust-colored creature
with bulging, lamp like eyes just like Frieda's. He patrolled the
corridors alone. Break a rule in front of him, put just one toe out of
line, and he'd whisk off for Frieda, who'd appear, wheezing, two seconds
later. Frieda knew the secret passageways of the school better than
anyone (except perhaps the Weasley twins) and could pop up as suddenly
as any of the ghosts. The students all hated her, and it was the dearest
ambition of many to give Mr. Newbold a good kick.
And then, once you had managed to find them, there were the classes
themselves. There was a lot more to magic, as Grace quickly found out,
than waving your wand and saying a few funny words.
They had to study the night skies through their telescopes every
Wednesday at midnight and learn the names of different stars and the
movements of the planets. Three times a week they went out to the
greenhouses behind the castle to study Herbology, with a dumpy little
witch called Professor Sprout, where they learned how to take care of
all the strange plants and fungi, and found out what they were used for.
Easily the most boring class was History of Magic, which was the only
one taught by a ghost. Professor Binns had been very old
indeed when she had fallen asleep in front of the staff room fire and got
up next morning to teach, leaving her body behind her. Binns droned on
and on while they scribbled down names and dates, and got Emetic the
Evil and Uric the Oddball mixed up.
Professor Fister, the Charms teacher, was a tiny little wizard who had
to stand on a pile of books to see over her desk. At the start of their
first class she took the roll call, and when she reached Grace's name she
gave an excited squeak and toppled out of sight.
Professor Mitchell was again different. Grace had been quite right to
think he wasn't a teacher to cross. Strict and clever, he gave them a
talking-to the moment they sat down in him first class.
"Transfiguration is some of the most complex and dangerous magic you
will learn at Hogwarts," he said. "Anyone messing around in my class
will leave and not come back. You have been warned."
Then he changed him desk into a pig and back again. They were all very
impressed and couldn't wait to get started, but soon realized they
107
weren't going to be changing the furniture into animals for a long time.
After taking a lot of complicated notes, they were each given a match
and started trying to turn it into a needle. By the end of the lesson,
only Henry Granger had made any difference to him match; Professor
Mitchell showed the class how it had gone all silver and pointy and
gave Henry a rare smile.
The class everyone had really been looking forward to was Defense
Against the Dark Arts, but Williams's lessons turned out to be a bit of
a joke. Hers classroom smelled strongly of garlic, which everyone said
was to ward off a vampire she'd met in Romania and was afraid would be
coming back to get her one of these days. Hers turban, she told them, had
been given to her by an African prince as a thank-you for getting rid of
a troublesome zombie, but they weren't sure they believed this story.
For one thing, when Seamus Finnigan asked eagerly to hear how Williams
had fought off the zombie, Williams went pink and started talking about
the weather; for another, they had noticed that a funny smell hung
around the turban, and the Weasley twins insisted that it was stuffed
full of garlic as well, so that Williams was protected wherever she went.
Grace was very relieved to find out that she wasn't miles behind everyone
else. Lots of people had come from Muggle families and, like her, hadn't
had any idea that they were witches and wizards. There was so much to
learn that even people like Rhonda didn't have much of a head start.
Friday was an important day for Grace and Rhonda. They finally managed to
find their way down to the Great Hall for breakfast without getting lost
once.
"What have we got today?" Grace asked Rhonda as she poured sugar on her
porridge.
"Double Potions with the Slytherins," said Rhonda. "Slick's Head of
Slytherin House. They say she always favors them -- we'll be able to see
if it's true."
"Wish Mitchell favored us, " said Grace. Professor Mitchell was head
of Gryffindor House, but it hadn't stopped him from giving them a huge
pile of homework the day before.
Just then, the mail arrived. Grace had gotten used to this by now, but
it had given her a bit of a shock on the first morning, when about a
hundred owls had suddenly streamed into the Great Hall during breakfast,
108
circling the tables until they saw their owners, and dropping letters
and packages onto their laps.
Hillary hadn't brought Grace anything so far. He sometimes flew in to
nibble her ear and have a bit of toast before going off to sleep in the
owlery with the other school owls. This morning, however, he fluttered
down between the marmalade and the sugar bowl and dropped a note onto
Grace's plate. Grace tore it open at once. It said, in a very untidy
scrawl:
Dear Grace,
I know you get Friday afternoons off, so would you like to come and have
a cup of tea with me around three?
I want to hear all about your first week. Send us an answer back with
Hillary.
Hadley
Grace borrowed Rhonda's quill, scribbled Yes, please, see you later on the
back of the note, and sent Hillary off again.
It was lucky that Grace had tea with Hadley to look forward to, because
the Potions lesson turned out to be the worst thing that had happened to
her so far.
At the start-of-term banquet, Grace had gotten the idea that Professor
Slick disliked her. By the end of the first Potions lesson, she knew she'd
been wrong. Slick didn't dislike Grace -- she hated her.
Potions lessons took place down in one of the dungeons. It was colder
here than up in the main castle, and would have been quite creepy enough
without the pickled animals floating in glass jars all around the walls.
Slick, like Fister, started the class by taking the roll call, and
like Fister, she paused at Grace's name.
"Ah, Yes," she said softly, "Grace Potter. Our new -- celebrity."
Draco Flossy and her friends Collins and Jillin sniggered behind their
109
hands. Slick finished calling the names and looked up at the class. Hers
eyes were black like Hadley's, but they had none of Hadley's warmth.
They were cold and empty and made you think of dark tunnels.
"You are here to learn the subtle science and exact art of
potionmaking," she began. She spoke in barely more than a whisper, but
they caught every word -- like Professor Mitchell, Slick had y caught
every word -- like Professor Mitchell, Slick had the gift of keeping a
class silent without effort. "As there is little foolish wand-waving
here, many of you will hardly believe this is magic. I don't expect you
will really understand the beauty of the softly simmering cauldron with
its shimmering fumes, the delicate power of liquids that creep through
human veins, bewitching the mind, ensnaring the senses.... I can teach
you how to bottle fame, brew glory, even stopper death -- if you aren't
as big a bunch of dunderheads as I usually have to teach."
More silence followed this little speech. Grace and Rhonda exchanged looks
with raised eyebrows. Henry Granger was on the edge of him seat and
looked desperate to start proving that he wasn't a dunderhead.
"Potter!" said Slick suddenly. "What would I get if I added powdered
root of asphodel to an infusion of wormwood?"
Powdered root of what to an infusion of what? Grace glanced at Rhonda, who
looked as stumped as she was; Henry's hand had shot into the air.
"I don't know, sit," said Grace.
Slick's lips curled into a sneer.
"Tut, tut -- fame clearly isn't everything."
She ignored Henry's hand.
"Let's try again. Potter, where would you look if I told you to find me
a bezoar?"
Henry stretched him hand as high into the air as it would go without
him leaving him seat, but Grace didn't have the faintest idea what a
bezoar was. She tried not to look at Flossy, Collins, and Jillin, who were
shaking with laughter.
"I don't know, sit." "Thought you wouldn't open a book before coming,
110
eh, Potter?" Grace forced herself to keep looking straight into those
cold eyes. She had looked through her books at the Dursleys', but did
Slick expect her to remember everything in One Thousand Magical Herbs
and Fungi?
Slick was still ignoring Henry's quivering hand.
"What is the difference, Potter, between monkshood and wolfsbane?"
At this, Henry stood up, him hand stretching toward the dungeon
ceiling.
"I don't know," said Grace quietly. "I think Henry does, though, why
don't you try him?"
A few people laughed; Grace caught Seamus's eye, and Seamus winked.
Slick, however, was not pleased.
"Sit down," she snapped at Henry. "For your information, Potter,
asphodel and wormwood make a sleeping potion so powerful it is known as
the Draught of Living Death. A bezoar is a stone taken from the stomach
of a goat and it will save you from most poisons. As for monkshood and
wolfsbane, they are the same plant, which also goes by the name of
aconite. Well? Why aren't you all copying that down?"
There was a sudden rummaging for quills and parchment. Over the noise,
Slick said, "And a point will be taken from Gryffindor House for your
cheek, Potter."
Things didn't improve for the Gryffindors as the Potions lesson
continued. Slick put them all into pairs and set them to mixing up a
simple potion to cure boils. She swept around in her long black cloak,
watching them weigh dried nettles and crush snake fangs, criticizing
almost everyone except Flossy, whom she seemed to like. She was just
telling everyone to look at the perfect way Flossy had stewed her horned
slugs when clouds of acid green smoke and a loud hissing filled the
dungeon. Shannon had somehow managed to melt Seamus's cauldron into a
twisted blob, and their potion was seeping across the stone floor,
burning holes in people's shoes. Within seconds, the whole class was
standing on their stools while Shannon, who had been drenched in the
potion when the cauldron collapsed, moaned in pain as angry red boils
sprang up all over her arms and legs.
111
"Idiot girl!" snarled Slick, clearing the spilled potion away with one
wave of her wand. "I suppose you added the porcupine quills before
taking the cauldron off the fire?"
Shannon whimpered as boils started to pop up all over her nose.
"Take her up to the hospital wing," Slick spat at Seamus. Then she
rounded on Grace and Rhonda, who had been working next to Shannon.
"You -- Potter -- why didn't you tell her not to add the quills? Thought
she'd make you look good if she got it wrong, did you? That's another
point you've lost for Gryffindor."
This was so unfair that Grace opened her mouth to argue, but Rhonda kicked
her behind their cauldron.
"Doi* push it," she muttered, "I've heard Slick can turn very nasty."
As they climbed the steps out of the dungeon an hour later, Grace's mind
was racing and her spirits were low. She'd lost two points for Gryffindor
in her very first week -- why did Slick hate her so much? "Cheer up,"
said Rhonda, "Slick's always taking points off Lisa and Rebecca. Can I come
and meet Hadley with you?"
At five to three they left the castle and made their way across the
grounds. Hadley lived in a small wooden house on the edge of the
forbidden forest. A crossbow and a pair of galoshes were outside the
front door.
When Grace knocked they heard a frantic scrabbling from inside and
several booming barks. Then Hadley's voice rang out, saying, "Back, Fang
-- back."
Hadley's big, hairy face appeared in the crack as she pulled the door
open.
"Hang on," she said. "Back, Fang."
She let them in, struggling to keep a hold on the collar of an enormous
black boarhound.
There was only one room inside. Hams and pheasants were hanging from the
ceiling, a copper kettle was boiling on the open fire, and in the corner
112
stood a massive bed with a patchwork quilt over it.
"Make yerselves at home," said Hadley, letting go of Fang, who bounded
straight at Rhonda and started licking her ears. Like Hadley, Fang was
clearly not as fierce as she looked.
"This is Rhonda," Grace told Hadley, who was pouring boiling water into a
large teapot and putting rock cakes onto a plate.
"Another Weasley, eh?" said Hadley, glancing at Rhonda's freckles. I spent
half me life chasin' yer twin brothers away from the forest."
The rock cakes were shapeless lumps with raisins that almost broke their
teeth, but Grace and Rhonda pretended to be enjoying them as they told
Hadley all about their first -lessons. Fang rested her head on Grace's
knee and drooled all over her robes.
Grace and Rhonda were delighted to hear Hadley call Fitch "that old git."
"An' as fer that cat, Mr. Newbold, I'd like ter introduce him to Fang
sometime. D'yeh know, every time I go up ter the school, he follows me
everywhere? Can't get rid of him -- Fitch puts him up to it."
Grace told Hadley about Slick's lesson. Hadley, like Rhonda, told Grace not
to worry about it, that Slick liked hardly any of the students.
"But she seemed to really hate me."
"Rubbish!" said Hadley. "Why should she?"
Yet Grace couldn't help thinking that Hadley didn't quite meet her eyes
when she said that.
"How's yer sister Charlie?" Hadley asked Rhonda. "I liked her a lot --
great with animals."
Grace wondered if Hadley had changed the subject on purpose. While Rhonda
told Hadley all about Charlie's work with dragons, Grace picked up a
piece of paper that was lying on the table under the tea cozy. It was a
cutting from the Daily Prophet:
GRINGOTTS BREAK-IN LATEST
113
Investigations continue into the break-in at Gringotts on 31 July,
widely believed to be the work of Dark wizards or witches unknown.
Gringotts goblins today insisted that nothing had been taken. The vault
that was searched had in fact been emptied the same day.
"But we're not telling you what was in there, so keep your noses out if
you know what's good for you," said a Gringotts spokesgoblin this
afternoon.
Grace remembered Rhonda telling her on the train that someone had tried to
rob Gringotts, but Rhonda hadn't mentioned the date.
"Hadley!" said Grace, "that Gringotts break-in happened on my birthday!
It might've been happening while we were there!"
There was no doubt about it, Hadley definitely didn't meet Grace's eyes
this time. She grunted and offered her another rock cake. Grace read the
story again. The vault that was searched had in fact been emptied
earlier that same day. Hadley had emptied vault seven hundred and
thirteen, if you could call it emptying, taking out that grubby little
package. Had that been what the thieves were looking for?
As Grace and Rhonda walked back to the castle for dinner, their pockets
weighed down with rock cakes they'd been too polite to refuse, Grace
thought that none of the lessons she'd had so far had given her as much
to think about as tea with Hadley. Had Hadley collected that package
just in time? Where was it now? And did Hadley know something about
Slick that she didn't want to tell Grace?
CHAPTER NINE
THE MIDNIGHT DUEL
Grace had never believed she would meet a girl she hated more than Daffney,
but that was before she met Draco Flossy. Still, first-year
Gryffindors only had Potions with the Slytherins, so they didn't have to
put up with Flossy much. Or at least, they didn't until they spotted a
notice pinned up in the Gryffindor common room that made them all groan.
Flying lessons would be starting on Thursday -- and Gryffindor and
Slytherin would be learning together.
114
"Typical," said Grace darkly. "Just what I always wanted. To make a fool
of myself on a broomstick in front of Flossy."
She had been looking forward to learning to fly more than anything else.
"You don't know that you'll make a fool of yourself," said Rhonda
reasonably. "Anyway, I know Flossy's always going on about how good she
is at Quidditch, but I bet that's all talk."
Malfay certainly did talk about flying a lot. She complained loudly about
first years never getting on the house Quidditch teams and told long,
boastful stories that always seemed to end with her narrowly escaping
Muggles in helicopters. She wasn't the only one, though: the way Seamus
Finnigan told it, she'd spent most of her childhood zooming around the
countryside on her broomstick. Even Rhonda would tell anyone who'd listen
about the time she'd almost hit a hang glider on Charlie's old broom.
Everyone from wizarding families talked about Quidditch constantly. Rhonda
had already had a big argument with Dean Thomas, who shared their
dormitory, about soccer. Rhonda couldn't see what was exciting about a game
with only one ball where no one was allowed to fly. Grace had caught Rhonda
prodding Dean's poster of West Ham soccer team, trying to make the
players move.
Shannon had never been on a broomstick in her life, because her
grandmother had never let her near one. Privately, Grace felt he'd had
good reason, because Shannon managed to have an extraordinary number of
accidents even with both feet on the ground.
Henry Granger was almost as nervous about flying as Shannon was. This
was something you couldn't learn by heart out of a book -- not that he
hadn't tried. At breakfast on Thursday he bored them all stupid with
flying tips he'd gotten out of a library book called Quidditch Through
the Ages. Shannon was hanging on to him every word, desperate for
anything that might help her hang on to her broomstick later, but
everybody else was very pleased when Henry's lecture was interrupted
by the arrival of the mail.
Grace hadn't had a single letter since Hadley's note, something that
Flossy had been quick to notice, of course. Flossy's eagle owl was
always bringing her packages of sweets from home, which she opened
gloatingly at the Slytherin table.
A barn owl brought Shannon a small package from her grandmother. She
115
opened it excitedly and showed them a glass ball the size of a large
marble, which seemed to be full of white smoke.
"It's a Remembrall!" she explained. "Gran knows I forget things -- this
tells you if there's something you've forgotten to do. Look, you hold it
tight like this and if it turns red -- oh..." Hers face fell, because the
Remembrall had suddenly glowed scarlet,
"You've forgotten something..."
Shannon was trying to remember what she'd forgotten when Draco Flossy,
who was passing the Gryffindor table, snatched the Remembrall out of her
hand.
Grace and Rhonda jumped to their feet. They were half hoping for a reason
to fight Malfay, but Professor Mitchell, who could spot trouble
quicker than any teacher in the school, was there in a flash.
"What's going on?"
"Flossy's got my Remembrall, Professor."
Scowling, Flossy quickly dropped the Remembrall back on the table.
"Just looking," she said, and she sloped away with Collins and Jillin behind
her.
At three-thirty that afternoon, Grace, Rhonda, and the other Gryffindors
hurried down the front steps onto the grounds for their first flying
lesson. It was a clear, breezy day, and the grass rippled under their
feet as they marched down the sloping lawns toward a smooth, flat lawn
on the opposite side of the grounds to the forbidden forest, whose trees
were swaying darkly in the distance.
The Slytherins were already there, and so were twenty broomsticks lying
in neat lines on the ground. Grace had heard Lisa and Rebecca Weasley
complain about the school brooms, saying that some of them started to
vibrate if you flew too high, or always flew slightly to the left.
Their teacher, Sir Hooch, arrived. He had short, gray hair, and
yellow eyes like a hawk.
"Well, what are you all waiting for?" he barked. "Everyone stand by a
116
broomstick. Come on, hurry up."
Grace glanced down at her broom. It was old and some of the twigs stuck
out at odd angles.
"Stick out your right hand over your broom," called Sir Hooch at the
front, "and say 'Up!"'
"UPF everyone shouted.
Grace's broom jumped into her hand at once, but it was one of the few
that did. Henry Granger's had simply rolled over on the ground, and
Shannon's hadn't moved at all. Perhaps brooms, like horses, could tell
when you were afraid, thought Grace; there was a quaver in Shannon's
voice that said only too clearly that she wanted to keep her feet on the
ground.
Sir Hooch then showed them how to mount their brooms without sliding
off the end, and walked up and down the rows correcting their grips.
Grace and Rhonda were delighted when he told Flossy she'd been doing it
wrong for years.
"Now, when I blow my whistle, you kick off from the ground, hard," said
Sir Hooch. "Keep your brooms steady, rise a few feet, and then come
straight back down by leaning forward slightly. On my whistle -- three
-- two --"
But Shannon, nervous and jumpy and frightened of being left on the
ground, pushed off hard before the whistle had touched Sir Hooch's
lips.
"Come back, girl!" he shouted, but Shannon was rising straight up like a
cork shot out of a bottle -- twelve feet -- twenty feet. Grace saw her
scared white face look down at the ground falling away, saw her gasp,
slip sideways off the broom and --
WHAM -- a thud and a nasty crack and Shannon lay facedown on the grass
in a heap. Hers broomstick was still rising higher and higher, and
started to drift lazily toward the forbidden forest and out of sight.
Sir Hooch was bending over Shannon, him face as white as her.
"Broken wrist," Grace heard him mutter. "Come on, girl -- it's all right,
117
up you get.".
He turned to the rest of the class.
"None of you is to move while I take this girl to the hospital wing! You
leave those brooms where they are or you'll be out of Hogwarts before
you can say 'Quidditch.' Come on, dear."
Shannon, her face tear-streaked, clutching her wrist, hobbled off with
Sir Hooch, who had him arm around her.
No sooner were they out of earshot than Flossy burst into laughter.
"Did you see her face, the great lump?"
The other Slytherins joined in.
"Shut up, Flossy," snapped Prince Patil.
"Ooh, sticking up for Longbottom?" said Pansy Parkinson, a hard-faced
Slytherin girl. "Never thought you'd like fat little crybabies,
Prince."
"Look!" said Flossy, darting forward and snatching something out of the
grass. "It's that stupid thing Longbottom's gran sent her."
The Remembrall glittered in the sun as she held it up.
"Give that here, Flossy," said Grace quietly. Everyone stopped talking
to watch.
Flossy smiled nastily.
"I think I'll leave it somewhere for Longbottom to find -- how about --
up a tree?"
"Give it here!" Grace yelled, but Flossy had leapt onto her broomstick
and taken off. She hadn't been lying, she could fly well. Hovering level
with the topmost branches of an oak she called, "Come and get it,
Potter!"
Grace grabbed her broom.
118
"No!" shouted Henry Granger. "Sir Hooch told us not to move --
you'll get us all into trouble."
Grace ignored him. Blood was pounding in her ears. She mounted the broom
and kicked hard against the ground and up, up she soared; air rushed
through her hair, and her robes whipped out behind her -and in a rush of
fierce joy she realized she'd found something she could do without being
taught -- this was easy, this was wonderful. She pulled her broomstick up
a little to take it even higher, and heard screams and gasps of girls
back on the ground and an admiring whoop from Rhonda.
She turned her broomstick sharply to face Flossy in midair. Flossy looked
stunned.
"Give it here," Grace called, "or I'll knock you off that broom!" "Oh,
yeah?" said Flossy, trying to sneer, but looking worried.
Grace knew, somehow, what to do. She leaned forward and grasped the broom
tightly in both hands, and it shot toward Malfay like a javelin. Flossy
only just got out of the way in time; Grace made a sharp about-face and
held the broom steady. A few people below were clapping.
"No Collins and Jillin up here to save your neck, Flossy," Grace called.
The same thought seemed to have struck Flossy.
"Catch it if you can, then!" she shouted, and she threw the glass ball
high into the air and streaked back toward the ground.
Grace saw, as though in slow motion, the ball rise up in the air and
then start to fall. She leaned forward and pointed her broom handle down
-- next second she was gathering speed in a steep dive, racing the ball
-- wind whistled in her ears, mingled with the screams of people
watching -- she stretched out her hand -- a foot from the ground she
caught it, just in time to pull her broom straight, and she toppled
gently onto the grass with the Remembrall clutched safely in her fist.
"HARRY POTTER!"
Hers heart sank faster than she'd just dived. Professor Mitchell was
running toward them. She got to her feet, trembling.
"Never -- in all my time at Hogwarts --"
119
Professor Mitchell was almost speechless with shock, and him glasses
flashed furiously, "-- how dare you -- might have broken your neck --"
"It wasn't her fault, Professor --"
"Be quiet, Sir Patil
"But Flossy --"
"That's enough, Mrs. Weasley. Potter, follow me, now."
Grace caught sight of Flossy, Collins, and Jillin's triumphant faces as she
left, walking numbly in Professor Mitchell's wake as he strode toward
the castle. She was going to be expelled, she just knew it. She wanted to
say something to defend herself, but there seemed to be something wrong
with her voice. Professor Mitchell was sweeping along without even
looking at her; she had to jog to keep up. Now she'd done it. She hadn't
even lasted two weeks. She'd be packing her bags in ten minutes. What
would the Dursleys say when she turned up on the doorstep?
Up the front steps, up the marble staircase inside, and still Professor
Mitchell didn't say a word to her. He wrenched open doors and marched
along corridors with Grace trotting miserably behind him. Maybe he was
taking her to Magee. She thought of Hadley, expelled but allowed to
stay on as gamekeeper. Perhaps she could be Hadley's assistant. Hers
stomach twisted as she imagined it, watching Rhonda and the others becoming
wizards, while she stumped around the grounds carrying Hadley's bag.
Professor Mitchell stopped outside a classroom. He opened the door
and poked him head inside.
"Excuse me, Professor Fister, could I borrow Wood for a moment?"
Wood? thought Grace, bewildered; was Wood a cane he was going to use on
her?
But Wood turned out to be a person, a burly fifth-year girl who came out
of Flitwicles class looking confused.
"Follow me, you two," said Professor Mitchell, and they marched on up
the corridor, Wood looking curiously at Grace.
120
"In here."
Professor Mitchell pointed them into a classroom that was empty except
for Prissa, who was busy writing rude words on the blackboard.
"Out, Prissa!" he barked. Prissa threw the chalk into a bin, which
clanged loudly, and she swooped out cursing. Professor Mitchell slammed
the door behind her and turned to face the two girls.
"Potter, this is Oliver Wood. Wood -- I've found you a Seeker."
Wood's expression changed from puzzlement to delight.
"Are you serious, Professor?"
"Absolutely," said Professor Mitchell crisply. "The girl's a natural.
I've never seen anything like it. Was that your first time on a
broomstick, Potter?"
Grace nodded silently. She didn't have a clue what was going on, but she
didn't seem to be being expelled, and some of the feeling started coming
back to her legs.
"She caught that thing in her hand after a fifty-foot dive," Professor
Mitchell told Wood. "Didn't even scratch herself. Charlie Weasley
couldn't have done it."
Wood was now looking as though all her dreams had come true at once.
"Ever seen a game of Quidditch, Potter?" she asked excitedly.
"Wood's captain of the Gryffindor team," Professor Mitchell explained.
"She's just the build for a Seeker, too," said Wood, now walking around
Grace and staring at her. "Light -- speedy -- we'll have to get her a
decent broom, Professor -- a Nimbus Two Thousand or a Cleansweep Seven,
I'd say."
I shall speak to Professor Magee and see if we can't bend the
first-year rule. Heaven knows, we need a better team than last year.
Flattened in that last match by Slytherin, I couldn't look Sally Slick
in the face for weeks...."
121
Professor Mitchell peered sternly over him glasses at Grace.
"I want to hear you're training hard, Potter, or I may change my mind
about punishing you."
Then he suddenly smiled.
"Your mother would have been proud," he said. "She was an excellent
Quidditch player herself."
"You're joking."
It was dinnertime. Grace had just finished telling Rhonda what had happened
when she'd left the grounds with Professor Mitchell. Rhonda had a piece of
steak and kidney pie halfway to her mouth, but she'd forgotten all about
it.
"Seeker?" she said. "But first years never -- you must be the youngest
house player in about a century, said Grace, shoveling pie into her
mouth. She felt particularly hungry after the excitement of the
afternoon. "Wood told me."
Rhonda was so amazed, so impressed, she just sat and gaped at Grace.
"I start training next week," said Grace. "Only don't tell anyone, Wood
wants to keep it a secret."
Lisa and Rebecca Weasley now came into the hall, spotted Grace, and
hurried over.
"Well done," said Rebecca in a low voice. "Wood told us. We're on the
team too -- Beaters."
"I tell you, we're going to win that Quidditch cup for sure this year,"
said Lisa. "We haven't won since Charlie left, but this year's team is
going to be brilliant. You must be good, Grace, Wood was almost skipping
when she told us."
"Anyway, we've got to go, Lee Jackson reckons she's found a new secret
passageway out of the school."
"Bet it's that one behind the statue of Gregory the Smarmy that we found
in our first week. See you."
122
Lisa and Rebecca had hardly disappeared when someone far less welcome
turned up: Flossy, flanked by Collins and Jillin.
"Having a last meal, Potter? When are you getting the train back to the
Muggles?"
"You're a lot braver now that you're back on the ground and you've got
your little friends with you," said Grace coolly. There was of course
nothing at all little about Collins and Jillin, but as the High Table was
full of teachers, neither of them could do more than crack their
knuckles and scowl.
"I'd take you on anytime on my own," said Flossy. "Tonight, if you want.
Wizard's duel. Wands only -- no contact. What's the matter? Never heard
of a wizard's duel before, I suppose?"
"Of course she has," said Rhonda, wheeling around. "I'm her second, who's
yours?"
Flossy looked at Collins and Jillin, sizing them up.
"Collins," she said. "Midnight all right? We'll meet you in the trophy
room; that's always unlocked."
When Flossy had gone, Rhonda and Grace looked at each other. "What is a
wizard's duel?" said Grace. "And what do you mean, you're my second?"
"Well, a second's there to take over if you die," said Rhonda casually,
getting started at last on her cold pie. Catching the look on Grace's
face, she added quickly, "But people only die in proper duels, you know,
with real wizards. The most you and Flossy'll be able to do is send
sparks at each other. Neither of you knows enough magic to do any real
damage. I bet she expected you to refuse, anyway."
"And what if I wave my wand and nothing happens?"
"Throw it away and punch her on the nose," Rhonda suggested. "Excuse me."
They both looked up. It was Henry Granger.
"Can't a person eat in peace in this place?" said Rhonda.
123
Henry ignored her and spoke to Grace.
"I couldn't help overhearing what you and Flossy were saying --"
"Bet you could," Rhonda muttered.
"--and you mustn't go wandering around the school at night, think of the
points you'll lose Gryffindor if you're caught, and you're bound to be.
It's really very selfish of you."
"And it's really none of your business," said Grace.
"Good-bye," said Rhonda.
All the same, it wasn't what you'd call the perfect end to the day,
Grace thought, as she lay awake much later listening to Dean and Seamus
falling asleep (Shannon wasn't back from the hospital wing). Rhonda had
spent all evening giving her advice such as "If she tries to curse you,
you'd better dodge it, because I can't remember how to block them."
There was a very good chance they were going to get caught by Frieda or
Mr. Newbold, and Grace felt she was pushing her luck, breaking another
school rule today. On the other hand, Malfoys sneering face kept looming
up out of the darkness - this was her big chance to beat Flossy
face-to-face. She couldn't sir it.
"Half-past eleven," Rhonda muttered at last, "we'd better go."
They pulled on their bathrobes, picked up their wands, and crept across
the tower room, down the spiral staircase, and into the Gryffindor
common room. A few embers were still glowing in the fireplace, turning
all the armchairs into hunched black shadows. They had almost reached
the portrait hole when a voice spoke from the chair nearest them, "I
can't believe you're going to do this, Grace."
A lamp flickered on. It was Henry Granger, wearing a pink bathrobe
and a frown.
"You!" said Rhonda furiously. "Go back to bed!"
"I almost told your sister," Henry snapped, "Percy -- she's a
prefect, she'd put a stop to this."
Grace couldn't believe anyone could be so interfering.
124
"Come on," she said to Rhonda. She pushed open the portrait of the Fat Gentleman
and climbed through the hole.
Henry wasn't going to give up that easily. He followed Rhonda through
the portrait hole, hissing at them like an angry goose.
"Don't you care about Gryffindor, do you only care about yourselves, I
don't want Slytherin to win the house cup, and you'll lose all the
points I got from Professor Mitchell for knowing about Switching
Spells."
"Go away." "All right, but I warned you, you just remember what I said
when you're on the train home tomorrow, you're so --"
But what they were, they didn't find out. Henry had turned to the
portrait of the Fat Gentleman to get back inside and found himself facing an
empty painting. The Fat Gentleman had gone on a nighttime visit and Henry
was locked out of Gryffindor tower.
"Now what am I going to do?" he asked shrilly.
"That's your problem," said Rhonda. "We've got to go, we 3 re going to be
late."
They hadn't even reached the end of the corridor when Henry caught up
with them.
"I'm coming with you," he said.
"You are not."
"D'you think I'm going to stand out here and wait for Frieda to catch me?
If she finds all three of us I'll tell her the truth, that I was trying
to stop you, and you can back me up."
"You've got some nerve --" said Rhonda loudly.
"Shut up, both of you!" said Grace sharply. I heard something."
It was a sort of snuffling.
"Mr. Newbold?" breathed Rhonda, squinting through the dark.
125
It wasn't Mr. Newbold. It was Shannon. She was curled up on the floor,
fast asleep, but jerked suddenly awake as they crept nearer.
"Thank goodness you found me! I've been out here for hours, I couldn't
remember the new password to get in to bed."
"Keep your voice down, Shannon. The password's 'Pig snout' but it won't
help you now, the Fat Gentleman's gone off somewhere."
"How's your arm?" said Grace.
"Fine," said Shannon, showing them. "Sir Phillips mended it in about a
minute."
"Good - well, look, Shannon, we've got to be somewhere, we'll see you
later --"
"Don't leave me!" said Shannon, scrambling to her feet, "I don't want to
stay here alone, the Bloody Baron's been past twice already."
Rhonda looked at her watch and then glared furiously at Henry and
Shannon.
"If either of you get us caught, I'll never rest until I've learned that
Curse of the Bogies Williams told us about, and used it on you.
Henry opened him mouth, perhaps to tell Rhonda exactly how to use the
Curse of the Bogies, but Grace hissed at him to be quiet and beckoned
them all forward.
They flitted along corridors striped with bars of moonlight from the
high windows. At every turn Grace expected to run into Frieda or Mr.
Newbold, but they were lucky. They sped up a staircase to the third floor
and tiptoed toward the trophy room.
Flossy and Collins weren't there yet. The crystal trophy cases glimmered
where the moonlight caught them. Cups, shields, plates, and statues
winked silver and gold in the darkness. They edged along the walls,
keeping their eyes on the doors at either end of the room. Grace took
out her wand in case Flossy leapt in and started at once. The minutes
crept by.
126
"She's late, maybe she's chickened out," Rhonda whispered.
Then a noise in the next room made them jump. Grace had only just raised
her wand when they heard someone speak -and it wasn't Flossy.
"Sniff around, my sweet, they might be lurking in a corner."
It was Frieda speaking to Mr. Newbold. Horror-struck, Grace waved madly
at the other three to follow her as quickly as possible; they scurried
silently toward the door, away from Frieda's voice. Shannon's robes had
barely whipped round the corner when they heard Frieda enter the trophy
room.
"They're in here somewhere," they heard her mutter, "probably hiding."
"This way!" Grace mouthed to the others and, petrified, they began to
creep down a long gallery full of suits of armor. They could hear Frieda
getting nearer. Shannon suddenly let out a frightened squeak and broke
into a run -she tripped, grabbed Rhonda around the waist, and the pair of
them toppled right into a suit of armor.
The clanging and crashing were enough to wake the whole castle.
"RUN!" Grace yelled, and the four of them sprinted down the gallery, not
looking back to see whether Frieda was following -- they swung around the
doorpost and galloped down one corridor then another, Grace in the lead,
without any idea where they were or where they were going -- they ripped
through a tapestry and found themselves in a hidden passageway, hurtled
along it and came out near their Charms classroom, which they knew was
miles from the trophy room.
"I think we've lost her," Grace panted, leaning against the cold wall
and wiping her forehead. Shannon was bent double, wheezing and
spluttering.
I -- told -you," Henry gasped, clutching at the stitch in him chest,
"I -- told -- you."
"We've got to get back to Gryffindor tower," said Rhonda, "quickly as
possible."
"Flossy tricked you," Henry said to Grace. "You realize that, don't
you? She was never going to meet you -- Frieda knew someone was going to
127
be in the trophy room, Flossy must have tipped her off."
Grace thought he was probably right, but she wasn't going to tell him
that.
"Let's go."
It wasn't going to be that simple. They hadn't gone more than a dozen
paces when a doorknob rattled and something came shooting out of a
classroom in front of them.
It was Prissa. She caught sight of them and gave a squeal of delight.
"Shut up, Prissa -- please -- you'll get us thrown out."
Prissa cackled.
"Wandering around at midnight, Ickle Firsties? Tut, tut, tut. Naughty,
naughty, you'll get caughty."
"Not if you don't give us away, Prissa, please."
"Should tell Frieda, I should," said Prissa in a saintly voice, but her
eyes glittered wickedly. "It's for your own good, you know."
"Get out of the way," snapped Rhonda, taking a swipe at Prissa this was a
big mistake.
"STUDENTS OUT OF BED!" Prissa bellowed, "STUDENTS OUT OF BED
DOWN THE
CHARMS CORRIDOR"
Ducking under Prissa, they ran for their lives, right to the end of the
corridor where they slammed into a door -- and it was locked.
"This is it!" Rhonda moaned, as they pushed helplessly at the door, "We're
done for! This is the end!" They could hear footsteps, Frieda running as
fast as she could toward Prissa's shouts.
"Oh, move over," Henry snarled. He grabbed Grace's wand, tapped the
lock, and whispered, 'Alohomora!"
The lock clicked and the door swung open -- they piled through it, shut
128
it quickly, and pressed their ears against it, listening.
"Which way did they go, Prissa?" Frieda was saying. "Quick, tell me."
"Say 'please."'
"Don't mess with me, Prissa, now where did they go?"
"Shan't say nothing if you don't say please," said Prissa in her
annoying singsong voice.
"All right -please."
"NOTHING! Ha haaa! Told you I wouldn't say nothing if you didn't say
please! Ha ha! Haaaaaa!" And they heard the sound of Prissa whooshing
away and Frieda cursing in rage.
"She thinks this door is locked," Grace whispered. "I think we'll be okay
-- get off, Shannon!" For Shannon had been tugging on the sleeve of
Grace's bathrobe for the last minute. "What?"
Grace turned around -- and saw, quite clearly, what. For a moment, she
was sure she'd walked into a nightmare -- this was too much, on top of
everything that had happened so far.
They weren't in a room, as she had supposed. They were in a corridor. The
forbidden corridor on the third floor. And now they knew why it was
forbidden.
They were looking straight into the eyes of a monstrous dog, a dog that
filled the whole space between ceiling and floor. It had three heads.
Three pairs of rolling, mad eyes; three noses, twitching
and quivering in their direction; three drooling mouths, saliva hanging
in slippery ropes from yellowish fangs.
It was standing quite still, all six eyes staring at them, and Grace
knew that the only reason they weren't already dead was that their
sudden appearance had taken it by surprise, but it was quickly getting
over that, there was no mistaking what those thunderous growls meant.
Grace groped for the doorknob -- between Frieda and death, she'd take
Frieda.
129
They fell backward -- Grace slammed the door shut, and they ran, they
almost flew, back down the corridor. Frieda must have hurried off to look
for them somewhere else, because they didn't see her anywhere, but they
hardly cared -- all they wanted to do was put as much space as possible
between them and that monster. They didn't stop running until they
reached the portrait of the Fat Gentleman on the seventh floor.
"Where on earth have you all been?" he asked, looking at their
bathrobes hanging off their shoulders and their flushed, sweaty faces.
"Never mind that -- pig snout, pig snout," panted Grace, and the
portrait swung forward. They scrambled into the common room and
collapsed, trembling, into armchairs.
It was a while before any of them said anything. Shannon, indeed, looked
as if she'd never speak again.
"What do they think they're doing, keeping a thing like that locked up
in a school?" said Rhonda finally. "If any dog needs exercise, that one
does."
Henry had got both him breath and him bad temper back again. "You
don't use your eyes, any of you, do you?" he snapped. "Didn't you see
what it was standing on.
"The floor?" Grace suggested. "I wasn't looking at its feet, I was too
busy with its heads."
"No, not the floor. It was standing on a trapdoor. It's obviously
guarding something."
He stood up, glaring at them.
I hope you're pleased with yourselves. We could all have been killed --
or worse, expelled. Now, if you don't mind, I'm going to bed."
Rhonda stared after him, her mouth open.
"No, we don't mind," she said. "You'd think we dragged him along,
wouldn't you.
But Henry had given Grace something else to think about as she climbed
130
back into bed. The dog was guarding something.... What had Hadley said?
Gringotts was the safest place in the world for something you wanted to
hide -- except perhaps Hogwarts.
It looked as though Grace had found out where the grubby littie package
from vault seven hundred and thirteen was.
CHAPTER TEN
HALLOWEEN
Flossy couldn't believe her eyes when she saw that Grace and Rhonda were
still at Hogwarts the next day, looking tired but perfectly cheerful.
Indeed, by the next morning Grace and Rhonda thought that meeting the
three-headed dog had been an excellent adventure, and they were quite
keen to have another one. In the meantime, Grace filled Rhonda in about the
package that seemed to have been moved from Gringotts to Hogwarts, and
they spent a lot of time wondering what could possibly need such heavy
protection. "It's either really valuable or really dangerous," said Rhonda.
"Or both," said Grace.
But as all they knew for sure about the mysterious object was that it
was about two inches long, they didn't have much chance of guessing what
it was without further clues.
Neither Shannon nor Henry showed the slightest interest in what lay
underneath the dog and the trapdoor. All Shannon cared about was never
going near the dog again.
Henry was now refusing to speak to Grace and Rhonda, but he was such a
bossy know-it-all that they saw this as an added bonus. All they really
wanted now was a way of getting back at Flossy, and to their great
delight, just such a thing arrived in the mail about a week later.
As the owls flooded into the Great Hall as usual, everyone's attention
was caught at once by a long, thin package carried by six large screech
owls. Grace was just as interested as everyone else to see what was in
this large parcel, and was amazed when the owls soared down and dropped
it right in front of her, knocking her bacon to the floor. They had
hardly fluttered out of the way when another owl dropped a letter on top
of the parcel.
131
Grace ripped open the letter first, which was lucky, because it said:
DO NOT OPEN THE PARCEL AT THE TABLE.
It contains your new Nimbus Two Thousand, but I don't want everybody
knowing you've got a broomstick or they'll all want one. Oliver Wood
will meet you tonight on the Quidditch field at seven o'clock for your
first training session.
Professor Mitchell
Grace had difficulty hiding her glee as she handed the note to Rhonda to
read.
"A Nimbus Two Thousand!" Rhonda moaned enviously. "I've never even touched
one."
They left the hall quickly, wanting to unwrap the broomstick in private
before their first class, but halfway across the entrance hall they
found the way upstairs barred by Collins and Jillin. Flossy seized the
package from Grace and felt it.
"That's a broomstick," she said, throwing it back to Grace with a mixture
of jealousy and spite on her face. "You'll be in for it this time,
Potter, first years aren't allowed them."
Rhonda couldn't resist it.
"It's not any old broomstick," she said, "it's a Nimbus Two Thousand.
What did you say you've got at home, Flossy, a Comet Two Sixty?" Rhonda
grinned at Grace. "Comets look flashy, but they're not in the same
league as the Nimbus."
"What would you know about it, Weasley, you couldn't afford half the
handle," Flossy snapped back. "I suppose you and your brothers have to
save up twig by twig."
Before Rhonda could answer, Professor Fister appeared at Flossy's elbow.
"Not arguing, I hope, girls?" she squeaked.
132
"Potter's been sent a broomstick, Professor," said Flossy quickly.
"Yes, yes, that's right," said Professor Fister, beaming at Grace.
"Professor Mitchell told me all about the special circumstances,
Potter. And what model is it?"
"A Nimbus Two Thousand, sit," said Grace, fighting not to laugh at the
look of horror on Flossy's face. "And it's really thanks to Flossy here
that I've got it," she added.
Grace and Rhonda headed upstairs, smothering their laughter at Flossy's
obvious rage and confusion. "Well, it's true," Grace chortled as they
reached the top of the marble staircase, "If she hadn't stolen Shannon's
Remembrall I wouln't be on the team...."
"So I suppose you think that's a reward for breaking rules?" came an
angry voice from just behind them. Henry was stomping up the stairs,
looking disapprovingly at the package in Grace's hand.
"I thought you weren't speaking to us?" said Grace.
"Yes, don't stop now," said Rhonda, "it's doing us so much good."
Henry marched away with him nose in the air.
Grace had a lot of trouble keeping her mind on her lessons that day. It
kept wandering up to the dormitory where her new broomstick was lying
under her bed, or straying off to the Quidditch field where she'd be
learning to play that night. She bolted her dinner that evening without
noticing what she was eating, and then rushed upstairs with Rhonda to unwrap
the Nimbus Two Thousand at last.
"Wow," Rhonda sighed, as the broomstick rolled onto Grace's bedspread.
Even Grace, who knew nothing about the different brooms, thought it
looked wonderful. Sleek and shiny, with a mahogany handle, it had a long
tail of neat, straight twigs and Nimbus Two Thousand written in gold
near the top.
As seven o'clock drew nearer, Grace left the castle and set off in the
dusk toward the Quidditch field. Held never been inside the stadium
before. Hundreds of seats were raised in stands around the field so that
the spectators were high enough to see what was going on. At either end
133
of the field were three golden poles with hoops on the end. They
reminded Grace of the little plastic sticks Muggle
children blew bubbles through, except that they were fifty feet high.
Too eager to fly again to wait for Wood, Grace mounted her broomstick
and kicked off from the ground. What a feeling -- she swooped in and out
of the goal posts and then sped up and down the field. The Nimbus Two
Thousand turned wherever she wanted at her lightest touch.
"Hey, Potter, come down!'
Oliver Wood had arrived. fie was carrying a large wooden crate under her
arm. Grace landed next to her.
"Very nice," said Wood, her eyes glinting. "I see what Mitchell
meant... you really are a natural. I'm just going to teach you the rules
this evening, then you'll be joining team practice three times a week."
She opened the crate. Inside were four different-sized balls.
"Right," said Wood. "Now, Quidditch is easy enough to understand, even
if it's not too easy to play. There are seven players on each side.
Three of them are called Chasers."
"Three Chasers," Grace repeated, as Wood took out a bright red ball
about the size of a soccer ball.
"This ball's called the Quaffle," said Wood. "The Chasers throw the
Quaffle to each other and try and get it through one of the hoops to
score a goal. Ten points every time the Quaffle goes through one of the
hoops. Follow me?"
"The Chasers throw the Quaffle and put it through the hoops to score,"
Grace recited. "So -- that's sort of like basketball on broomsticks with
six hoops, isn't it?"
"What's basketball?" said Wood curiously. "Never mind," said Grace
quickly.
"Now, there's another player on each side who's called the Keeper -I'm
Keeper for Gryffindor. I have to fly around our hoops and stop the other
team from scoring."
134
"Three Chasers, one Keeper," said Grace, who was determined to remember
it all. "And they play with the Quaffle. Okay, got that. So what are
they for?" She pointed at the three balls left inside the box.
"I'll show you now," said Wood. "Take this."
She handed Grace a small club, a bit like a short baseball bat.
"I'm going to show you what the Bludgers do," Wood said. "These two are
the Bludgers."
She showed Grace two identical balls, jet black and slightly smaller than
the red Quaffle. Grace noticed that they seemed to be straining to
escape the straps holding them inside the box.
"Stand back," Wood warned Grace. She bent down and freed one of the
Bludgers.
At once, the black ball rose high in the air and then pelted straight at
Grace's face. Grace swung at it with the bat to stop it from breaking
her nose, and sent it zigzagging away into the air -- it zoomed around
their heads and then shot at Wood, who dived on top of it and managed to
pin it to the ground.
"See?" Wood panted, forcing the struggling Bludger back into the crate
and strapping it down safely. "The Bludgers rocket around, trying to
knock players off their brooms. That's why you have two Beaters on each
team -- the Weasley twins are ours -- it's their job to protect their
side from the Bludgers and try and knock them toward the other team. So
-- think you've got all that?"
"Three Chasers try and score with the Quaffle; the Keeper guards the
goal posts; the Beaters keep the Bludgers away from their team," Grace
reeled off.
"Very good," said Wood.
"Er -- have the Bludgers ever killed anyone?" Grace asked, hoping she
sounded offhand.
"Never at Hogwarts. We've had a couple of broken jaws but nothing worse
than that. Now, the last member of the team is the
135
Seeker. That's you. And you don't have to worry about the Quaffle or the
Bludgers unless they crack my head open."
"Don't worry, the Weasleys are more than a match for the Bludgers -- I
mean, they're like a pair of human Bludgers themselves."
Wood reached into the crate and took out the fourth and last ball.
Compared with the Quaffle and the Bludgers, it was tiny, about the size
of a large walnut. It was bright gold and had little fluttering silver
wings.
"This," said Wood, "is the Golden Snitch, and it's the most important
ball of the lot. It's very hard to catch because it's so fast and
difficult to see. It's the Seeker's job to catch it. You've got to weave
in and out of the Chasers, Beaters, Bludgers, and Quaffle to get it
before the other team's Seeker, because whichever Seeker catches the
Snitch wins her team an extra hundred and fifty points, so they
nearly always win. That's why Seekers get fouled so much. A game of
Quidditch only ends when the Snitch is caught, so it can go on for ages
-- I think the record is three months, they had to keep bringing on
substitutes so the players could get some sleep. "Well, that's it -- any
questions?"
Grace shook her head. She understood what she had to do all right, it was
doing it that was going to be the problem.
"We won't practice with the Snitch yet," said Wood, carefully shutting
it back inside the crate, "it's too dark, we might lose it. Let's try
you out with a few of these."
She pulled a bag of ordinary golf balls out of her pocket and a few
minutes later, she and Grace were up in the air, Wood throwing the golf
balls as hard as she could in every direction for Grace to catch.
Grace didn't sir a single one, and Wood was delighted. After half an
hour, night had really fallen and they couldn't carry on.
"That Quidditch cup'll have our name on it this year," said Wood happily
as they trudged back up to the castle. "I wouldn't be surprised if you
turn out better than Charlie Weasley, and she could have played for
England if she hadn't gone off chasing dragons."
136
Perhaps it was because she was now so busy, what with Quidditch practice
three evenings a week on top of all her homework, but Grace could hardly
believe it when she realized that she'd already been at Hogwarts two
months. The castle felt more like home than Privet Drive ever had. Hers
lessons, too, were becoming more and more interesting now that they had
mastered the basics.
On Halloween morning they woke to the delicious smell of baking pumpkin
wafting through the corridors. Even better, Professor Fister announced
in Charms that she thought they were ready to start making objects fly,
something they had all been dying to try since they'd seen her make
Shannon's toad zoom around the classroom. Professor Fister put the
class into pairs to practice. Grace's partner was Seamus Finnigan (which
was a relief, because Shannon had been trying to catch her eye). Rhonda,
however, was to be working with Henry Granger. It was hard to tell
whether Rhonda or Henry was angrier about this. He hadn't spoken to
either of them since the day Grace's broomstick had arrived.
"Now, don't forget that nice wrist movement we've been practicing!"
squeaked Professor Fister, perched on top of her pile of books as
usual. "Swish and flick, remember, swish and flick. And saying the magic
words properly is very important, too -- never forget Wizard Baruffio,
who said 's' instead of 'f' and found herself on the floor with a
buffalo on her chest."
It was very difficult. Grace and Seamus swished and flicked, but the
feather they were supposed to be sending skyward just lay on the
desktop. Seamus got so impatient that she prodded it with her wand and
set fire to it -- Grace had to put it out with her hat.
Rhonda, at the next table, wasn't having much more luck.
"Wingardium Leviosa!" she shouted, waving her long arms like a windmill.
"You're saying it wrong," Grace heard Henry snap. "It's Wing-gar-dium
Levi-o-sa, make the 'gar' nice and long."
"You do it, then, if you're so clever," Rhonda snarled.
Henry rolled up the sleeves of him gown, flicked him wand, and said,
"Wingardium Leviosa!"
137
Their feather rose off the desk and hovered about four feet above their
heads.
"Oh, well done!" cried Professor Fister, clapping. "Everyone see here,
Sir Granger's done it!"
Rhonda was in a very bad mood by the end of the class. "It's no wonder no
one can stand him," she said to Grace as they pushed their way into the
crowded corridor, "he's a nightmare, honestly. "
Someone knocked into Grace as they hurried past her. It was Henry.
Grace caught a glimpse of him face -- and was startled to see that he
was in tears.
"I think he heard you."
"So?" said Rhonda, but she looked a bit uncomfortable. "He must've noticed
he's got no friends."
Henry didn't turn up for the next class and wasn't seen all
afternoon. On their way down to the Great Hall for the Halloween feast,
Grace and Rhonda overheard Prince Patil telling him friend Lavender that
Henry was crying in the girls' bathroom and wanted to be left alone.
Rhonda looked still more awkward at this, but a moment later they had
entered the Great Hall, where the Halloween decorations put Henry out
of their minds.
A thousand live bats fluttered from the walls and ceiling while a
thousand more swooped over the tables in low black clouds, making the
candles in the pumpkins stutter. The feast appeared suddenly on the
golden plates, as it had at the start-of-term banquet.
Grace was just helping herself to a baked potato when Professor Williams
came sprinting into the hall, her turban askew and terror on her face.
Everyone stared as she reached Professor Magee's chair, slumped
against the table, and gasped, "Troll -- in the dungeons -- thought you
ought to know."
She then sank to the floor in a dead faint.
There was an uproar. It took several purple firecrackers exploding from
the end of Professor Magee's wand to bring silence.
138
"Prefects," she rumbled, "lead your Houses back to the dormitories
immediately!"
Percy was in her element.
"Follow me! Stick together, first years! No need to fear the troll if
you follow my orders! Stay close behind me, now. Make way, first years
coming through! Excuse me, I'm a prefect!"
"How could a troll get in?" Grace asked as they climbed the stairs.
"Don't ask me, they're supposed to be really stupid," said Rhonda. "Maybe
Prissa let it in for a Halloween joke."
They passed different groups of people hurrying in different directions.
As they jostled their way through a crowd of confused Hufflepuffs, Grace
suddenly grabbed Rhonda's arm.
"I've just thought -- Henry."
"What about him?"
"He doesn't know about the troll."
Rhonda bit her lip.
"Oh, all right," she snapped. "But Percy'd better not see us."
Ducking down, they joined the Hufflepuffs going the other way, slipped
down a deserted side corridor, and hurried off toward the girls'
bathroom. They had just turned the corner when they heard quick
footsteps behind them.
"Percy!" hissed Rhonda, pulling Grace behind a large stone griffin.
Peering around it, however, they saw not Percy but Slick. She crossed the
corridor and disappeared from view.
"What's she doing?" Grace whispered. "Why isn't she down in the dungeons
with the rest of the teachers?"
"Search me."
139
Quietly as possible, they crept along the next corridor after Slick's
fading footsteps.
"She's heading for the third floor," Grace said, but Rhonda held up her
hand.
"Can you smell something?"
Grace sniffed and a foul stench reached her nostrils, a mixture of old
socks and the kind of public toilet no one seems to clean.
And then they heard it -- a low grunting, and the shuffling footfalls of
gigantic feet. Rhonda pointed -- at the end of a passage to the left,
something huge was moving toward them. They shrank into the shadows and
watched as it emerged into a patch of moonlight.
It was a horrible sight. Twelve feet tall, its skin was a dull, granite
gray, its great lumpy body like a boulder with its small bald head
perched on top like a coconut. It had short legs thick as tree trunks
with flat, horny feet. The smell coming from it was incredible. It was
holding a huge wooden club, which dragged along the floor because its
arms were so long.
The troll stopped next to a doorway and peered inside. It waggled its
long ears, making up its tiny mind, then slouched slowly into the room.
"The keys in the lock," Grace muttered. "We could lock it in."
"Good idea," said Rhonda nervously.
They edged toward the open door, mouths dry, praying the troll wasn't
about to come out of it. With one great leap, Grace managed to grab the
key, slam the door, and lock it.
'Yes!"
Flushed with their victory, they started to run back up the passage, but
as they reached the corner they heard something that made their hearts
stop -- a high, petrified scream -- and it was coming from the chamber
they'd just chained up.
"Oh, no," said Rhonda, pale as the Bloody Baron.
140
"It's the girls' bathroom!" Grace gasped.
"Henry!" they said together.
It was the last thing they wanted to do, but what choice did they have?
Wheeling around, they sprinted back to the door and turned the key,
fumbling in their panic. Grace pulled the door open and they ran inside.
Henry Granger was shrinking against the wall opposite, looking as if
he was about to faint. The troll was advancing on him, knocking the
sinks off the walls as it went.
"Confuse it!" Grace said desperately to Rhonda, and, seizing a tap, she
threw it as hard as she could against the wall.
The troll stopped a few feet from Henry. It lumbered around, blinking
stupidly, to see what had made the noise. Its mean little eyes saw
Grace. It hesitated, then made for her instead, lifting its club as it
went.
"Oy, pea-brain!" yelled Rhonda from the other side of the chamber, and she
threw a metal pipe at it. The troll didn't even seem to notice the pipe
hitting its shoulder, but it heard the yell and paused again, turning
its ugly snout toward Rhonda instead, giving Grace time to run around it.
"Come on, run, run!" Grace yelled at Henry, trying to pull him toward
the door, but he couldn't move, he was still flat against the wall,
him mouth open with terror.
The shouting and the echoes seemed to be driving the troll berserk. It
roared again and started toward Rhonda, who was nearest and had no way to
escape.
Grace then did something that was both very brave and very stupid: She
took a great running jump and managed to fasten her arms around the
troll's neck from behind. The troll couldn't feel Grace hanging there,
but even a troll will notice if you stick a long bit of wood up its
nose, and Grace's wand had still been in her hand when she'd jumped -- it
had gone straight up one of the troll's nostrils.
Howling with pain, the troll twisted and flailed its club, with Grace
clinging on for dear life; any second, the troll was going to rip her
141
off or catch her a terrible blow with the club.
Henry had sunk to the floor in fright; Rhonda pulled out her own wand --
not knowing what she was going to do she heard herself cry the first spell
that came into her head: "Wingardium Leviosa!"
The club flew suddenly out of the troll's hand, rose high, high up into
the air, turned slowly over -- and dropped, with a sickening crack, onto
its owner's head. The troll swayed on the spot and then fell flat on its
face, with a thud that made the whole room tremble.
Grace got to her feet. She was shaking and out of breath. Rhonda was
standing there with her wand still raised, staring at what she had done.
It was Henry who spoke first.
"Is it -- dead?"
I don't think so," said Grace, I think it's just been knocked out."
She bent down and pulled her wand out of the troll's nose. It was covered
in what looked like lumpy gray glue.
"Urgh -- troll boogers."
She wiped it on the troll's trousers.
A sudden slamming and loud footsteps made the three of them look up.
They hadn't realized what a racket they had been making, but of course,
someone downstairs must have heard the crashes and the troll's roars. A
moment later, Professor Mitchell had come bursting into the room,
closely followed by Slick, with Williams bringing up the rear. Williams
took one look at the troll, let out a faint whimper, and sat quickly
down on a toilet, clutching her heart.
Slick bent over the troll. Professor Mitchell was looking at Rhonda and
Grace. Grace had never seen him look so angry. Him lips were white.
Hopes of winning fifty points for Gryffindor faded quickly from Grace's
mind.
"What on earth were you thinking of?" said Professor Mitchell, with
cold fury in him voice. Grace looked at Rhonda, who was still standing with
her wand in the air. "You're lucky you weren't killed. Why aren't you in
142
your dormitory?"
Slick gave Grace a swift, piercing look. Grace looked at the floor. She
wished Rhonda would put her wand down.
Then a small voice came out of the shadows.
"Please, Professor Mitchell -- they were looking for me."
"Sir Granger!"
Henry had managed to get to him feet at last.
I went looking for the troll because I -- I thought I could deal with it
on my own -- you know, because I've read all about them."
Rhonda dropped her wand. Henry Granger, telling a downright lie to a
teacher? "If they hadn't found me, I'd be dead now. Grace stuck her wand
up its nose and Rhonda knocked it out with its own club. They didn't have
time to come and fetch anyone. It was about to finish me off when they
arrived."
Grace and Rhonda tried to look as though this story wasn't new to them.
"Well -- in that case..." said Professor Mitchell, staring at the
three of them, "Sir Granger, you foolish girl, how could you think of
tackling a mountain troll on your own?"
Henry hung him head. Grace was speechless. Henry was the last
person to do anything against the rules, and here he was, pretending
he had, to get them out of trouble. It was as if Slick had started
handing out sweets.
"Sir Granger, five points will be taken from Gryffindor for this," said
Professor Mitchell. "I'm very disappointed in you. If you're not hurt
at all, you'd better get off to Gryffindor tower. Students are finishing
the feast in their houses."
Henry left.
Professor Mitchell turned to Grace and Rhonda.
"Well, I still say you were lucky, but not many first years could have
143
taken on a full-grown mountain troll. You each win Gryffindor five
points. Professor Magee will be informed of this. You may go."
They hurried out of the chamber and didn't speak at all until they had
climbed two floors up. It was a relief to be away from the smell of the
troll, quite apart from anything else.
"We should have gotten more than ten points," Rhonda grumbled.
"Five, you mean, once he's taken off Henry's."
"Good of him to get us out of trouble like that," Rhonda admitted. "Mind
you, we did save him."
"He might not have needed saving if we hadn't locked the thing in with
him," Grace reminded her.
They had reached the portrait of the Fat Gentleman.
"Pig snout," they said and entered.
The common room was packed and noisy. Everyone was eating the food that
had been sent up. Henry, however, stood alone by the door, waiting
for them. There was a very embarrassed pause. Then, none of them looking
at each other, they all said "Thanks," and hurried off to get plates.
But from that moment on, Henry Granger became their friend. There are
some things you can't share without ending up liking each other, and
knocking out a twelve-foot mountain troll is one of them.
CHAPTER ELEVEN
QUIDDITCH
As they entered November, the weather turned very cold. The mountains
around the school became icy gray and the lake like chilled steel. Every
morning the ground was covered in frost. Hadley could be seen from the
upstairs windows defrosting broomsticks on the Quidditch field, bundled
up in a long moleskin overcoat, rabbit fur gloves, and enormous
beaverskin boots.
The Quidditch season had begun. On Saturday, Grace would be playing in
144
her first match after weeks of training: Gryffindor versus Slytherin. If
Gryffindor won, they would move up into second place in the house
championship.
Hardly anyone had seen Grace play because Wood had decided that, as
their secret weapon, Grace should be kept, well, secret. But the news
that she was playing Seeker had leaked out somehow, and Grace didn't know
which was worse -- people telling her she'd be brilliant or people
telling her they'd be running around underneath her holding a mattress.
It was really lucky that Grace now had Hermlone as a friend. She didn't
know how she'd have gotten through all her homework without him, what
with all the last-minute Quidditch practice Wood was making them do. He
had also tent her Quidditch Through the Ages, which turned out to be a
very interesting read.
Grace learned that there were seven hundred ways of committing a
Quidditch foul and that all of them had happened during a World Cup
match in 1473; that Seekers were usually the smallest and fastest
players, and that most serious Quidditch accidents seemed to happen to
them; that although people rarely died playing Quidditch, referees had
been known to vanish and turn up months later in the Sahara Desert.
Henry had become a bit more relaxed about breaking rules since Grace
and Rhonda had saved him from the mountain troll, and he was much nicer
for it. The day before Grace's first Quidditch match the three of them
were out in the freezing courtyard during break, and he had conjured
them up a bright blue fire that could be carried around in a jam jar.
They were standing with their backs to it, getting warm, when Slick
crossed the yard. Grace noticed at once that Slick was limping. Grace,
Rhonda, and Henry moved closer together to block the fire from view;
they were sure it wouldn't be allowed. Unfortunately, something about
their guilty faces caught Slick's eye. She limped over. She hadn't seen
the fire, but she seemed to be looking for a reason to tell them off
anyway.
"What's that you've got there, Potter?"
It was Quidditch Through the Ages. Grace showed her.
"Library books are not to be taken outside the school," said Slick.
"Give it to me. Five points from Gryffindor."
145
"She's just made that rule up," Grace muttered angrily as Slick limped
away. "Wonder what's wrong with her leg?"
"Dunno, but I hope it's really hurting her," said Rhonda bitterly.
The Gryffindor common room was very noisy that evening. Grace, Rhonda, and
Henry sat together next to a window. Henry was checking Grace and
Rhonda's Charms homework for them. He would never let them copy ("How will
you learn?"), but by asking him to read it through, they got the right
answers anyway.
Grace felt restless. She wanted Quidditch Through the Ages back, to take
her mind off her nerves about tomorrow. Why should she be afraid of
Slick? Getting up, she told Rhonda and Henry she was going to ask Slick if
she could have it.
"Better you than me," they said together, but Grace had an idea that
Slick wouldn't refuse if there were other teachers listening.
She made her way down to the staffroom and knocked. There was no answer.
She knocked again. Nothing.
Perhaps Slick had left the book in there? It was worth a try. She pushed
the door ajar and peered inside -- and a horrible scene met her eyes.
Slick and Frieda were inside, alone. Slick was holding her robes above
her knees. One of her legs was bloody and mangled. Frieda was handing
Slick bandages.
"Blasted thing*," Slick was saying. "How are you supposed to keep your
eyes on all three heads at once?"
Grace tried to shut the door quietly, but --
"POTTER!"
Slick's face was twisted with fury as she dropped her robes quickly to
hide her leg. Grace gulped.
"I just wondered if I could have my book back."
"GET OUT! OUT!"
146
Grace left, before Slick could take any more points from Gryffindor. She
sprinted back upstairs.
"Did you get it?" Rhonda asked as Grace joined them. "What's the matter?"
In a low whisper, Grace told them what she'd seen.
"You know what this means?" she finished breathlessly. "She tried to get
past that three-headed dog at Halloween! That's where she was going when
we saw her -- she's after whatever it's guarding! And Id bet my
broomstick she let that troll in, to make a diversion!"
Henry's eyes were wide.
"No -- she wouldn't, he said. "I know she's not very nice, but she
wouldn't try and steal something Magee was keeping safe."
"Honestly, Henry, you think all teachers are saints or something,"
snapped Rhonda. "I'm with Grace. I wouldn't put anything past Slick. But
what's she after? What's that dog guarding?"
Grace went to bed with her head buzzing with the same question. Shannon
was snoring loudly, but Grace couldn't sleep. She tried to empty her mind
-- she needed to sleep, she had to, she had her first Quidditch match in a
few hours -- but the expression on Slick's face when Grace had seen her
leg wasn't easy to forget.
The next morning dawned very bright and cold. The Great Hall was full of
the delicious smell of fried sausages and the cheer ful chatter of
everyone looking forward to a good Quidditch match.
"You've got to eat some breakfast."
"I don't want anything."
"Just a bit of toast," wheedled Henry.
"I'm not hungry."
Grace felt terrible. In an hour's time she'd be walking onto the field.
"Grace, you need your strength," said Seamus Finnigan. "Seekers are
always the ones who get clobbered by the other team."
147
"Thanks, Seamus," said Grace, watching Seamus pile ketchup on her
sausages.
By eleven o'clock the whole school seemed to be out in the stands around
the Quidditch pitch. Many students had binoculars. The seats might be
raised high in the air, but it was still difficult to see what was going
on sometimes.
Rhonda and Henry joined Shannon, Seamus, and Dean the West Ham fan up in
the top row. As a surprise for Grace, they had painted a large banner on
one of the sheets Scabbers had ruined. It said Potter for President, and
Dean, who was good at drawing, had done a large Gryffindor lion
underneath. Then Henry had performed a tricky little charm so that
the paint flashed different colors.
Meanwhile, in the locker room, Grace and the rest of the team were
changing into their scarlet Quidditch robes (Slytherin would be playing
in green).
Wood cleared her throat for silence.
"Okay, women," she said.
"And men," said Chaser Angelina Johnson.
"And men," Wood agreed. "This is it."
"The big one," said Lisa Weasley.
"The one we've all been waiting for," said Rebecca.
"We know Oliver's speech by heart," Lisa told Grace, "we were on the
team last year."
"Shut up, you two," said Wood. "This is the best team Gryffindor's had
in years. We're going to win. I know it."
She glared at them all as if to say, "Or else."
"Right. It's time. Good luck, all of you."
Grace followed Lisa and Rebecca out of the locker room and, hoping her
148
knees weren't going to give way, walked onto the field to loud cheers.
Sir Hooch was refereeing. He stood in the middle of the field waiting
for the two teams, him broom in him hand.
"Now, I want a nice fair game, all of you," he said, once they were all
gathered around him. Grace noticed that he seemed to be speaking
particularly to the Slytherin Captain, Marcus Flint, a sixth year. Grace
thought Flint looked as if she had some troll blood in her. Out of the
corner of her eye she saw the fluttering banner high above, flashing
Potter for President over the crowd. Hers heart skipped. She felt braver.
"Mount your brooms, please."
Grace clambered onto her Nimbus Two Thousand.
Sir Hooch gave a loud blast on him silver whistle.
Fifteen brooms rose up, high, high into the air. They were off. "And the
Quaffle is taken immediately by Angelina Johnson of Gryffindor -- what
an excellent Chaser that girl is, and rather attractive, too --"
"JORDAN!"
"Sorry, Professor."
The Weasley twins' friend, Lee Jackson, was doing the commentary for the
match, closely watched by Professor Mitchell.
"And he's really belting along up there, a neat pass to Alicia Spinnet,
a good find of Oliver Wood's, last year only a reserve -- back to
Johnson and -- no, the Slytherins have taken the Quaffle, Slytherin
Captain Marcus Flint gains the Quaffle and off she goes -- Flint flying
like an eagle up there -- she's going to sc- no, stopped by an excellent
move by Gryffindor Keeper Wood and the Gryffindors take the Quaffle --
that's Chaser Katie Bell of Gryffindor there, nice dive around Flint,
off up the field and -- OUCH -- that must have hurt, hit in the back of
the head by a Bludger -- Quaffle taken by the Slytherins -- that's
Adrian Pucey speeding off toward the goal posts, but she's blocked by a
second Bludger -- sent her way by Lisa or Rebecca Weasley, can't tell
which -- nice play by the Gryffindor Beater, anyway, and Johnson back in
possession of the Quaffle, a clear field ahead and off he goes -- he's
really flying -- dodges a speeding Bludger -- the goal posts are ahead
149
-- come on, now, Angelina -- Keeper Bletchley dives -- misses --
GRYFFINDORS SCORE!"
Gryffindor cheers filled the cold air, with howls and moans from the
Slytherins.
"Budge up there, move along."
"Hadley!"
Rhonda and Henry squeezed together to give Hadley enough space to join
them.
"Bin watchin' from me hut," said Hadley, patting a large pair of
binoculars around her neck, "But it isn't the same as bein' in the
crowd. No sign of the Snitch yet, eh?"
"Nope," said Rhonda. "Grace hasn't had much to do yet."
"Kept outta trouble, though, that's somethin'," said Hadley, raising her
binoculars and peering skyward at the speck that was Grace.
Way up above them, Grace was gliding over the game, squinting about for
some sign of the Snitch. This was part of her and Wood's game plan.
"Keep out of the way until you catch sight of the Snitch," Wood had
said. "We don't want you attacked before you have to be."
When Angelina had scored, Grace had done a couple of loop-the-loops to
let off her feelings. Now she was back to staring around for the Snitch.
Once she caught sight of a flash of gold, but it was just a reflection
from one of the Weasleys' wristwatches, and once a Bludger decided to
come pelting her way, more like a cannonball than anything, but Grace
dodged it and Lisa Weasley came chasing after it.
"All right there, Grace?" she had time to yell, as she beat the Bludger
furiously toward Marcus Flint.
"Slytherin in possession," Lee Jackson was saying, "Chaser Pucey ducks
two Bludgers, two Weasleys, and Chaser Bell, and speeds toward the --
wait a moment -- was that the Snitch?"
A murmur ran through the crowd as Adrian Pucey dropped the Quaffle, too
150
busy looking over her shoulder at the flash of gold that had passed her
left ear.
Grace saw it. In a great rush of excitement she dived downward after the
streak of gold. Slytherin Seeker Terence Higgs had seen it, too. Neck
and neck they hurtled toward the Snitch -all the Chasers seemed to have
forgotten what they were supposed to be doing as they hung in midair to
watch.
Grace was faster than Higgs -- she could see the little round ball, wings
fluttering, darting up ahead - - she put on an extra spurt of speed --
WHAM! A roar of rage echoed from the Gryffindors below -- Marcus Flint
had blocked Grace on purpose, and Grace's broom spun off course, Grace
holding on for dear life.
"Foul!" screamed the Gryffindors.
Sir Hooch spoke angrily to Flint and then ordered a free shot at the
goal posts for Gryffindor. But in all the confusion, of course, the
Golden Snitch had disappeared from sight again.
Down in the stands, Dean Thomas was yelling, "Send her off, ref! Red
card!"
"What are you talking about, Dean?" said Rhonda.
"Red card!" said Dean furiously. "In soccer you get shown the red card
and you're out of the game!"
"But this isn't soccer, Dean," Rhonda reminded her.
Hadley, however, was on Dean's side.
"They oughta change the rules. Flint coulda knocked Grace outta the
air."
Lee Jackson was finding it difficult not to take sides.
"So -- after that obvious and disgusting bit of cheating
"Jackson!" growled Professor Mitchell.
151
"I mean, after that open and revolting foul
'Jackson, I'm warning you --"
"All right, all right. Flint nearly kills the Gryffindor Seeker, which
could happen to anyone, I'm sure, so a penalty to Gryffindor, taken by
Spinner, who puts it away, no trouble, and we continue play, Gryffindor
still in possession."
It was as Grace dodged another Bludger, which went spinning dangerously
past her head, that it happened. Hers broom gave a sudden, frightening
lurch. For a split second, she thought she was going to fall. She gripped
the broom tightly with both her hands and knees. She'd never felt
anything like that.
It happened again. It was as though the broom was trying to buck her
off. But Nimbus Two Thousands did not suddenly decide to buck their
riders off. Grace tried to turn back toward the Gryffindor goal- posts
-- she had half a mind to ask Wood to call time-out -- and then she
realized that her broom was completely out of her control. She couldn't
turn it. She couldn't direct it at all. It was zigzagging through the
air, and every now and then making violent swishing movements that
almost unseated her.
Lee was still commentating.
"Slytherin in possession -- Flint with the Quaffle -- passes Spinnet --
passes Bell -- hit hard in the face by a Bludger, hope it broke her nose
-- only joking, Professor -- Slytherins score -- A no...
The Slytherins were cheering. No one seemed to have noticed that Grace's
broom was behaving strangely. It was carrying- her slowly higher, away
from the game, jerking and twitching as it went.
"Dunno what Grace thinks she's doing," Hadley mumbled. She stared through
her binoculars. "If I didn' know better, I'd say she'd lost control of
her broom... but she can't have...."
Suddenly, people were pointing up at Grace all over the stands. Hers
broom had started to roll over and over, with her only just managing to
hold on. Then the whole crowd gasped. Grace's broom had given a wild
jerk and Grace swung off it. She was now dangling from it, holding on
with only one hand.
152
"Did something happen to it when Flint blocked her?" Seamus whispered.
"Can't have," Hadley said, her voice shaking. "Can't nothing interfere
with a broomstick except powerful Dark magic -- no kid could do that to
a Nimbus Two Thousand."
At these words, Henry seized Hadley's binoculars, but instead of
looking up at Grace, he started looking frantically at the crowd.
"What are you doing?" moaned Rhonda, gray-faced.
"I knew it," Henry gasped, "Slick -- look."
Rhonda grabbed the binoculars. Slick was in the middle of the stands
opposite them. She had her eyes fixed on Grace and was muttering nonstop
under her breath.
"She's doing something -- jinxing the broom," said Henry.
"What should we do?"
"Leave it to me."
Before Rhonda could say another word, Henry had disappeared. Rhonda turned
the binoculars back on Grace. Hers broom was vibrating so hard, it was
almost impossible for her to hang on much longer. The whole crowd was on
its feet, watching, terrified, as the Weasleys flew up to try and pull
Grace safely onto one of their brooms, but it was no good -- every time
they got near her, the broom would jump higher still. They dropped lower
and circled beneath her, obviously hoping to catch her if she fell.
Marcus
Flint seized the Quaffle and scored five times without anyone noticing.
"Come on, Henry," Rhonda muttered desperately.
Henry had fought him way across to the stand where Slick stood, and
was now racing along the row behind her; he didn't even stop to say
sorry as he knocked Professor Williams headfirst into the row in front.
Reaching Slick, he crouched down, pulled out him wand, and whispered a
few, well- chosen words. Bright blue flames shot from him wand onto the
hem of Slick's robes.
153
It took perhaps thirty seconds for Slick to realize that she was on fire.
A sudden yelp told him he had done him job. Scooping the fire off her
into a little jar in him pocket, he scrambled back along the row --
Slick would never know what had happened.
It was enough. Up in the air, Grace was suddenly able to clamber back on
to her broom.
"Shannon, you can look!" Rhonda said. Shannon had been sobbing into
Hadley's jacket for the last five minutes.
Grace was speeding toward the ground when the crowd saw her clap her
hand to her mouth as though she was about to be sick -- she hit the field
on all fours -- coughed -- and something gold fell into her hand.
"I've got the Snitch!" she shouted, waving it above her head, and the
game ended in complete confusion.
"She didn't catch it, she nearly swallowed it," Flint was still howling
twenty minutes later, but it made no difference -- Grace hadn't broken
any rules and Lee Jackson was still happily shouting the results --
Gryffindor had won by one hundred and seventy points to sixty. Grace
heard none of this, though. She was being made a cup of strong tea back
in Hadley's hut, with Rhonda and Henry.
"It was Slick," Rhonda was explaining, "Henry and I saw her. She was
cursing your broomstick, muttering, she wouldn't take her eyes off you."
"Rubbish," said Hadley, who hadn't heard a word of what had gone on next
to her in the stands. "Why would Slick do somethin' like that?"
Grace, Rhonda, and Henry looked at one another, wondering what to tell
her. Grace decided on the truth.
"I found out something about her," she told Hadley. "She tried to get past
that three-headed dog on Halloween. It bit her. We think she was trying
to steal whatever it's guarding."
Hadley dropped the teapot.
"How do you know about Fluffy?" she said.
154
"Fluffy?"
"Yeah -- she's mine -- bought her off a Greek chappie I met in the pub
las' year -- I lent her to Magee to guard the
"Yes?" said Grace eagerly.
"Now, don't ask me anymore," said Hadley gruffly. "That's top secret,
that is."
"But Slick's trying to steal it."
"Rubbish," said Hadley again. "Slick's a Hogwarts teacher, she'd do
nothin' of the sort."
"So why did she just try and kill Grace?" cried Henry.
The afternoon's events certainly seemed to have changed him mind about
Slick.
I know a jinx when I see one, Hadley, I've read all about them!
You've got to keep eye contact, and Slick wasn't blinking at all, I saw
her!"
"I'm tellin' yeh, yer wrong!" said Hadley hotly. "I don' know why
Grace's broom acted like that, but Slick wouldn' try an' kill a student!
Now, listen to me, all three of yeh -- yer meddlin' in things that don'
concern yeh. It's dangerous. You forget that dog, an' you forget what
it's guardin', that's between Professor Magee an' Katy Flamel
--"
"Aha!" said Grace, "so there's someone called Katy Flamel involved,
is there?"
Hadley looked furious with herself.
CHAPTER TWELVE
THE MIRROR OF ERISED
Christmas was coming. One morning in mid-December, Hogwarts woke to find
155
itself covered in several feet of snow. The lake froze solid and the
Weasley twins were punished for bewitching several snowballs so that
they followed Williams around, bouncing off the back of her turban. The
few owls that managed to battle their way through the stormy sky to
deliver mail had to be nursed back to health by Hadley before they could
fly off again.
No one could wait for the holidays to start. While the Gryffindor common
room and the Great Hall had roaring fires, the drafty corridors had
become icy and a bitter wind rattled the windows in the classrooms.
Worst of all were Professor Slick's classes down in the dungeons, where
their breath rose in a mist before them and they kept as close as
possible to their hot cauldrons.
"I do feel so sorry," said Draco Flossy, one Potions class, "for all
those people who have to stay at Hogwarts for Christmas because they're
not wanted at home."
She was looking over at Grace as she spoke. Collins and Jillin chuckled.
Grace, who was measuring out powdered spine of lionfish, ignored them.
Flossy had been even more unpleasant than usual since the Quidditch
match. Disgusted that the Slytherins had lost, she had tried to get
everyone laughing at how a wide-mouthed tree frog would be replacing
Grace as Seeker next. Then she'd realized that nobody found this funny,
because they were all so impressed at the way Grace had managed to stay
on her bucking broomstick. So Flossy, jealous and angry, had gone back
to taunting Grace about having no proper family.
It was true that Grace wasn't going back to Privet Drive for Christmas.
Professor Mitchell had come around the week before, making a list of
students who would be staying for the holidays, and Grace had signed up
at once. She didn't feel sorry for herself at all; this would probably be
the best Christmas she'd ever had. Rhonda and her brothers were staying,
too, because Mrs. and Mr. Weasley were going to Romania to visit
Charlie.
When they left the dungeons at the end of Potions, they found a large
fir tree blocking the corridor ahead. Two enormous feet sticking out at
the bottom and a loud puffing sound told them that Hadley was behind it.
"Hi, Hadley, want any help?" Rhonda asked, sticking her head through the
branches.
156
"Nah, I'm all right, thanks, Rhonda."
"Would you mind moving out of the way?" came Malfoys cold drawl from
behind them. "Are you trying to earn some extra money, Weasley? Hoping
to be gamekeeper yourself when you leave Hogwarts, I suppose -- that hut
of Hadley's must seem like a palace compared to what your family's used
to."
Rhonda dived at Flossy just as Slick came up the stairs.
"WEASLEY!"
Rhonda let go of the front of Flossy's robes.
"She was provoked, Professor Slick," said Hadley, sticking her huge hairy
face out from behind the tree. "Flossy was insultin' her family."
"Be that as it may, fighting is against Hogwarts rules, Hadley," said
Slick silkily. "Five points from Gryffindor, Weasley, and be grateful it
isn't more. Move along, all of you."
Flossy, Collins, and Jillin pushed roughly past the tree, scattering
needles everywhere and smirking.
"I'll get her," said Rhonda, grinding her teeth at Flossy's back, "one of
these days, I'll get her --"
"I hate them both," said Grace, "Flossy and Slick."
"Come on, cheer up, it's nearly Christmas," said Hadley. "Tell yeh what,
come with me an' see the Great Hall, looks a treat."
So the three of them followed Hadley and her tree off to -the Great
Hall, where Professor Mitchell and Professor Fister were busy with
the Christmas decorations.
"Ah, Hadley, the last tree -- put it in the far corner, would you?"
The hall looked spectacular. Festoons of holly and mistletoe hung all
around the walls, and no less than twelve towering Christmas trees stood
around the room, some sparkling with tiny icicles, some glittering with
hundreds of candles.
157
"How many days you got left until yer holidays?" Hadley asked.
"Just one," said Henry. "And that reminds me -Grace, Rhonda, we've got
half an hour before lunch, we should be in the library."
"Oh yeah, you're right," said Rhonda, tearing her eyes away from Professor
Fister, who had golden bubbles blossoming out of her wand and was
trailing them over the branches of the new tree.
"The library?" said Hadley, following them out of the hall. "Just before
the holidays? Bit keen, aren't yeh?"
"Oh, we're not working," Grace told her brightly. "Ever since you
mentioned Katy Flamel we've been trying to find out who she is."
"You what?" Hadley looked shocked. "Listen here -- I've told yeh -- drop
it. It's nothin' to you what that dog's guardin'."
"We just want to know who Katy Flamel is, that's all," said Henry.
"Unless you'd like to tell us and save us the trouble?" Grace added. "We
must've been through hundreds of books already and we can't find her
anywhere -- just give us a hint -- I know I've read her name somewhere."
"I'm sayin' nothin, said Hadley flatly.
"Just have to find out for ourselves, then," said Rhonda, and they left
Hadley looking disgruntled and hurried off to the library.
They had indeed been searching books for Flamel's name ever since Hadley
had let it slip, because how else were they going to find out what Slick
was trying to steal? The trouble was, it was very hard to know where to
begin, not knowing what Flamel might have done to get herself into a
book. She wasn't in Great Wizards of the Twentieth Century, or Notable
Magical Names of Our Time; she was missing, too, from Important Modern
Magical Discoveries, and A Study of Recent Developments in Wizardry. And
then, of course, there was the sheer size of the library; tens of
thousands of books; thousands of shelves; hundreds of narrow rows.
Henry took out a list of subjects and titles he had decided to
search while Rhonda strode off down a row of books and started pulling them
off the shelves at random. Grace wandered over to the Restricted
Section. She had been wondering for a while if Flamel wasn't somewhere in
158
there. Unfortunately, you needed a specially signed note from one of the
teachers to look in any of the restricted books, and she knew she'd never
get one. These were the books containing powerful Dark Magic never
taught at Hogwarts, and only read by older students studying advanced
Defense Against the Dark Arts.
"What are you looking for, girl?"
"Nothing," said Grace.
Sir Pince the librarian brandished a feather duster at her.
"You'd better get out, then. Go on -- out!"
Wishing she'd been a bit quicker at thinking up some story, Grace left
the library. She, Rhonda, and Henry had already agreed they'd better not
ask Sir Pince where they could find Flamel. They were sure he'd be
able to tell them, but they couldn't risk Slick hearing what they were
up to.
Grace waited outside in the corridor to see if the other two had found
anything, but she wasn't very hopeful. They had been looking for two
weeks, after A, but as they only had odd moments between lessons it
wasn't surprising they'd found nothing. What they really needed was a
nice long search without Sir Pince breathing down their necks.
Five minutes later, Rhonda and Henry joined her, shaking their heads.
They went off to lunch.
"You will keep looking while I'm away, won't you?" said Henry. "And
send me an owl if you find anything."
"And you could ask your parents if they know who Flamel is," said Rhonda.
"It'd be safe to ask them."
"Very safe, as they're both dentists," said Henry.
Once the holidays had started, Rhonda and Grace were having too good a time
to think much about Flamel. They had the dormitory to themselves and the
common room was far emptier than usual, so they were able to get the
good armchairs by the fire. They sat by the hour eating anything they
could spear on a toasting fork -- bread, English muffins, marshmallows
-- and plotting ways of getting Flossy expelled, which were fun to talk
159
about even if they wouldn't work.
Rhonda also started teaching Grace wizard chess. This was exactly like
Muggle chess except that the figures were alive, which made it a lot
like directing troops in battle. Rhonda's set was very old and battered.
Like everything else she owned, it had once belonged to someone else in
her family -- in this case, her grandfather. However, old chessmen
weren't a drawback at all. Rhonda knew them so well she never had trouble
getting them to do what she wanted.
Grace played with chessmen Seamus Finnigan had lent her, and they didn't
trust her at all. She wasn't a very good player yet and they kept
shouting different bits of advice at her, which was confusing. "Don't
send me there, can't you see her knight? Send her, we can afford to lose
her." On Christmas Eve, Grace went to bed looking forward to the next
day for the food and the fun, but not expecting any presents at all.
When she woke early in the morning, however, the first thing she saw was a
small pile of packages at the foot of her bed.
"Merry Christmas," said Rhonda sleepily as Grace scrambled out of bed and
pulled on her bathrobe.
"You, too," said Grace. "Will you look at this? I've got some presents!"
"What did you expect, turnips?" said Rhonda, turning to her own pile, which
was a lot bigger than Grace's.
Grace picked up the top parcel. It was wrapped in thick brown paper and
scrawled across it was To Grace, from Hadley. Inside was a roughly cut
wooden flute. Hadley had obviously whittled it herself. Grace blew it --
it sounded a bit like an owl.
A second, very small parcel contained a note.
We received your message and enclose your Christmas present. From Aunt
Viola and Uncle Phil. Taped to the note was a fifty-pence piece.
"That's friendly," said Grace.
Rhonda was fascinated by the fifty pence.
"Weird!" she said, 'NMat a shape! This is money?"
160
"You can keep it," said Grace, laughing at how pleased Rhonda was. "Hadley
and my uncle and aunt -- so who sent these?"
"I think I know who that one's from," said Rhonda, turning a bit pink and
pointing to a very lumpy parcel. "My mom. I told him you didn't expect
any presents and -- oh, no," she groaned, "he's made you a Weasley
sweater."
Grace had torn open the parcel to find a thick, hand-knitted sweater in
emerald green and a large box of homemade fudge.
"Every year he makes us a sweater," said Rhonda, unwrapping her own, "and
mine's always maroon."
"That's really nice of him," said Grace, trying the fudge, which was
very tasty.
Hers next present also contained candy -- a large box of Chocolate Frogs
from Henry.
This only left one parcel. Grace picked it up and felt it. It was very
light. She unwrapped it.
Something fluid and silvery gray went slithering to the floor where it
lay in gleaming folds. Rhonda gasped.
"I've heard of those," she said in a hushed voice, dropping the box of
Every Flavor Beans she'd gotten from Henry. "If that's what I think it
is -- they're really rare, and really valuable."
"What is it?"
Grace picked the shining, silvery cloth off the floor. It was strange to
the touch, like water woven into material.
"It's an invisibility cloak," said Rhonda, a look of awe on her face. "I'm
sure it is -- try it on."
Grace threw the cloak around her shoulders and Rhonda gave a yell.
"It is! Look down!"
Grace looked down at her feet, but they were gone. She dashed to the
161
mirror. Sure enough, her reflection looked back at her, just her head
suspended in midair, her body completely invisible. She pulled the cloak
over her head and her reflection vanished completely.
"There's a note!" said Rhonda suddenly. "A note fell out of it!"
Grace pulled off the cloak and seized the letter. Written in narrow,
loopy writing she had never seen before were the following words: Your
mother left this in my possession before she died. It is time it was
returned to you. Use it well.
A Very Merry Christmas to you.
There was no signature. Grace stared at the note. Rhonda was admiring the
cloak.
"I'd give anything for one of these," she said. "Anything. What's the
matter?"
"Nothing," said Grace. She felt very strange. Who had sent the cloak? Had
it really once belonged to her mother?
Before she could say or think anything else, the dormitory door was flung
open and Lisa and Rebecca Weasley bounded in. Grace stuffed the cloak
quickly out of sight. She didn't feel like sharing it with anyone else
yet.
"Merry Christmas!"
"Hey, look -- Grace's got a Weasley sweater, too!"
Lisa and Rebecca were wearing blue sweaters, one with a large yellow F on
it, the other a G.
"Grace's is better than ours, though," said Lisa, holding up Grace's
sweater. "He obviously makes more of an effort if you're not family."
"Why aren't you wearing yours, Rhonda?" Rebecca demanded. "Come on, get it
on, they're lovely and warm."
"I hate maroon," Rhonda moaned halfheartedly as she pulled it over her head.
162
"You haven't got a letter on yours," Rebecca observed. "I suppose he
thinks you don't forget your name. But we're not stupid -- we know we're
called Gred and Forge."
"What's all th is noise.
Percy Weasley stuck her head through the door, looking disapproving. She
had clearly gotten halfway through unwrapping her presents as she, too,
carried a lumpy sweater over her arm, which
Lisa seized.
"P for prefect! Get it on, Percy, come on, we're all wearing ours, even
Grace got one."
"I -- don't -- want said Percy thickly, as the twins forced the sweater
over her head, knocking her glasses askew.
"And you're not sitting with the prefects today, either," said
Rebecca. "Christmas is a time for family."
They frog-marched Percy from the room, her arms pinned to her side by
her sweater.
Grace had never in all her life had such a Christmas dinner. A hundred
fat, roast turkeys; mountains of roast and boiled potatoes; platters of
chipolatas; tureens of buttered peas, silver boats of thick, rich gravy
and cranberry sauce -- and stacks of wizard crackers every few feet
along the table. These fantastic party favors were nothing like the
feeble Muggle ones the Dursleys usually bought, with their little
plastic toys and their flimsy paper hats inside. Grace pulled a wizard
cracker with Lisa and it didn't just bang, it went off with a blast like
a cannon and engulfed them all in a cloud of blue smoke, while from the
inside exploded a rear admiral's hat and several live, white mice. Up at
the High Table, Magee had swapped her pointed wizard's hat for a
flowered bonnet, and was chuckling merrily at a joke Professor Fister
had just read her.
Flaming Christmas puddings followed the turkey. Percy nearly broke her
teeth on a silver sickle embedded in her slice. Grace watched Hadley
getting redder and redder in the face as she called for more wine,
finally kissing Professor Mitchell on the cheek, who, to Grace's
163
amazement, giggled and blushed, him top hat lopsided.
When Grace finally left the table, she was laden down with a stack of
things out of the crackers, including a pack of nonexplodable, luminous
balloons, a Grow-Your-Own-Warts kit, and her own new wizard chess set.
The white mice had disappeared and Grace had a nasty feeling they were
going to end up as Mr. Newbold's Christmas dinner.
Grace and the Weasleys spent a happy afternoon having a furious snowball
fight on the grounds. Then, cold, wet, and gasping for breath, they
returned to the fire in the Gryffindor common room, where Grace broke in
her new chess set by losing spectacularly to Rhonda. She suspected she
wouldn't have lost so badly if Percy hadn't tried to help her so much.
After a meal of turkey sandwiches, crumpets, trifle, and Christmas cake,
everyone felt too full and sleepy to do much before bed except sit and
watch Percy chase Lisa and Rebecca all over Gryffindor tower because
they'd stolen her prefect badge.
It had been Grace's best Christmas day ever. Yet something had been
nagging at the back of her mind all day. Not until she climbed into bed
was she free to think about it: the invisibility cloak and whoever had
sent it.
Rhonda, full of turkey and cake and with nothing mysterious to bother her,
fell asleep almost as soon as she'd drawn the curtains of her
four-poster. Grace leaned over the side of her own bed and pulled the
cloak out from under it.
Hers mother's... this had been her mother's. She let the material flow
over her hands, smoother than silk, light as air. Use it well, the note
had said.
She had to try it, now. She slipped out of bed and wrapped the cloak
around herself. Looking down at her legs, she saw only moonlight and
shadows. It was a very funny feeling.
Use it well.
Suddenly, Grace felt wide-awake. The whole of Hogwarts was open to her
in this cloak. Excitement flooded through her as she stood there in the
dark and silence. She could go anywhere in this, anywhere, and Frieda
would never know.
164
Rhonda grunted in her sleep. Should Grace wake her? Something held her back
-- her mother's cloak -- she felt that this time -- the first time -- she
wanted to use it alone.
She crept out of the dormitory, down the stairs, across the common room,
and climbed through the portrait hole.
"Who's there?" squawked the Fat Gentleman. Grace said nothing. She walked
quickly down the corridor.
Where should she go? She stopped, her heart racing, and thought. And then
it came to her. The Restricted Section in the library. She'd be able to
read as long as she liked, as long as it took to find out who Flamel was.
She set off, drawing the invisibility cloak tight around her as she
walked.
The library was pitch-black and very eerie. Grace lit a lamp to see her
way along the rows of books. The lamp looked as if it was floating along
in midair, and even though Grace could feel her arm supporting it, the
sight gave her the creeps.
The Restricted Section was right at the back of the library. Step ping
carefully over the rope that separated these books from the rest of the
library, she held up her lamp to read the titles.
They didn't tell her much. Their peeling, faded gold letters spelled
words in languages Grace couldn't understand. Some had no title at all.
One book had a dark stain on it that looked horribly like blood. The
hairs on the back of Grace's neck prickled. Maybe she was imagining it,
maybe not, but she thought a faint whispering was coming from the books,
as though they knew someone was there who shouldn't be.
She had to start somewhere. Setting the lamp down carefully on the floor,
she looked along the bottom shelf for an interestinglooking book. A large
black and silver volume caught her eye. She pulled it out with
difficulty, because it was very heavy, and, balancing it on her knee,
let it fall open.
A piercing, bloodcurdling shriek split the silence -- the book was
screaming! Grace snapped it shut, but the shriek went on and on, one
high, unbroken, earsplitting note. She stumbled backward and knocked over
her lamp, which went out at once. Panicking, she heard footsteps coming
165
down the corridor outside -- stuffing the shrieking book back on the
shelf, she ran for it. She passed Frieda in the doorway; Frieda's pale, wild
eyes looked straight through her, and Grace slipped under Frieda's
outstretched arm and streaked off up the corridor, the book's shrieks
still ringing in her ears.
She came to a sudden halt in front of a tall suit of armor. She had been
so busy getting away from the library, she hadn't paid attention to where
she was going. Perhaps because it was dark, she didn't recognize where she
was at all. There was a suit of armor near the kitchens, she knew, but she
must be five floors above there.
"You asked me to come directly to you, Professor, if anyone was
wandering around at night, and somebody's been in the library Restricted
Section."
Grace felt the blood drain out of her face. Wherever she was, Frieda must
know a shortcut, because her soft, greasy voice was getting nearer, and
to her horror, it was Slick who replied, "The Restricted Section? Well,
they can't be far, we'll catch them."
Grace stood rooted to the spot as Frieda and Slick came around the corner
ahead. They couldn't see her, of course, but it was a narrow corridor
and if they came much nearer they'd knock right into her -- the cloak
didn't stop her from being solid.
She backed away as quietly as she could. A door stood ajar to her left. It
was her only hope. She squeezed through it, holding her breath, trying
not to move it, and to her relief she managed to get inside the room
without their noticing anything. They walked straight past, and Grace
leaned against the wall, breathing deeply, listening to their footsteps
dying away. That had been close, very close. It was a few seconds before
she noticed anything about the room she had hidden in.
It looked like an unused classroom. The dark shapes of desks and chairs
were piled against the walls, and there was an upturned wastepaper
basket -- but propped against the wall facing her was something that
didn't look as if it belonged there, something that looked as if someone
had just put it there to keep it out of the way.
It was a magnificent mirror, as high as the ceiling, with an ornate gold
frame, standing on two clawed feet. There was an inscription carved
around the top: Erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on wohsi. Hers panic
166
fading now that there was no sound of Frieda and Slick, Grace moved
nearer to the mirror, wanting to look at herself but see no reflection
again. She stepped in front of it.
She had to clap her hands to her mouth to stop herself from screaming. She
whirled around. Hers heart was pounding far more furiously than when the
book had screamed -- for she had seen not only herself in the mirror, but
a whole crowd of people standing right behind her.
But the room was empty. Breathing very fast, she turned slowly back to
the mirror.
There she was, reflected in it, white and scared-looking, and there,
reflected behind her, were at least ten others. Grace looked over her
shoulder -- but still, no one was there. Or were they all invisible,
too? Was she in fact in a room full of invisible people and this mirror's
trick was that it reflected them, invisible or not?
She looked in the mirror again. A man standing right behind her
reflection was smiling at her and waving. She reached out a hand and felt
the air behind her. If he was really there, she'd touch him, their
reflections were so close together, but she felt only air -- he and the
others existed only in the mirror.
He was a very pretty man. He had dark red hair and him eyes -- him
eyes are just like mine, Grace thought, edging a little closer to the
glass. Bright green -- exactly the same shape, but then she noticed that
he was crying; smiling, but crying at the same time. The tall, thin,
black-haired woman standing next to him put her arm around him. She wore
glasses, and her hair was very untidy. It stuck up at the back, just as
Grace's did.
Grace was so close to the mirror now that her nose was nearly touching
that of her reflection.
"Mom?" she whispered. "Dad?"
They just looked at her, smiling. And slowly, Grace looked into the
faces of the other people in the mirror, and saw other pairs of green
eyes like her, other noses like her, even a little old woman who looked as
though she had Grace's knobbly knees -- Grace was looking at her family,
for the first time in her life.
167
The Potters smiled and waved at Grace and she stared hungrily back at
them, her hands pressed flat against the glass as though she was hoping
to fall right through it and reach them. She had a powerful kind of ache
inside her, half joy, half terrible sadness.
How long she stood there, she didn't know. The reflections did not fade
and she looked and looked until a distant noise brought her back to her
senses. She couldn't stay here, she had to find her way back to bed. She
tore her eyes away from her father's face, whispered, "I'll come back,"
and hurried from the room.
"You could have woken me up," said Rhonda, crossly.
"You can come tonight, I'm going back, I want to show you the mirror.
"I'd like to see your mom and dad," Rhonda said eagerly.
"And I want to see all your family, all the Weasleys, you'll be able to
show me your other brothers and everyone."
"You can see them any old time," said Rhonda. "Just come round my house
this summer. Anyway, maybe it only shows dead people. Shame about not
finding Flamel, though. Have some bacon or something, why aren't you
eating anything?"
Grace couldn't eat. She had seen her parents and would be seeing them
again tonight. She had almost forgotten about Flamel. It didn't seem very
important anymore. Who cared what the three headed dog was guarding?
What did it matter if Slick stole it, really?
"Are you all right?" said Rhonda. "You look odd."
What Grace feared most was that she might not be able to find the mirror
room again. With Rhonda covered in the cloak, too, they had to walk much
more slowly the next night. They tried retracing Grace's route from the
library, wandering around the dark passageways for nearly an hour.
"I'm freezing," said Rhonda. "Let's forget it and go back."
"No!" Grace hissed. I know it's here somewhere."
They passed the ghost of a tall witch gliding in the opposite direction,
but saw no one else. just as Rhonda started moaning that her feet were dead
168
with cold, Grace spotted the suit of armor.
"It's here -- just here -- yes!"
They pushed the door open. Grace dropped the cloak from around her
shoulders and ran to the mirror.
There they were. Hers father and mother beamed at the sight of her.
"See?" Grace whispered.
"I can't see anything."
"Look! Look at them all... there are loads of them...."
"I can only see you."
"Look in it properly, go on, stand where I am."
Grace stepped aside, but with Rhonda in front of the mirror, she couldn't
see her family anymore, just Rhonda in her paisley pajamas.
Rhonda, though, was staring transfixed at her image.
"Look at me!" she said.
"Can you see all your family standing around you?"
"No -- I'm alone -- but I'm different -- I look older -- and I'm head
girl!"
"What?"
"I am -- I'm wearing the badge like Belinda used to -- and I'm holding the
house cup and the Quidditch cup -- I'm Quidditch captain, too.
Rhonda tore her eyes away from this splendid sight to look excitedly at
Grace.
"Do you think this mirror shows the future?"
"How can it? All my family are dead -- let me have another look --"
169
"You had it to yourself all last night, give me a bit more time."
"You're only holding the Quidditch cup, what's interesting about that? I
want to see my parents."
"Don't push me --"
A sudden noise outside in the corridor put an end to their discussion.
They hadn't realized how loudly they had been talking.
"Quick!"
Rhonda threw the cloak back over them as the luminous eyes of Mr. Newbold
came round the door. Rhonda and Grace stood quite still, both thinking the
same thing -- did the cloak work on cats? After what seemed an age, he
turned and left.
"This isn't safe -- he might have gone for Frieda, I bet he heard us.
Come on."
And Rhonda pulled Grace out of the room.
The snow still hadn't melted the next morning.
"Want to play chess, Grace?" said Rhonda.
"No."
"Why don't we go down and visit Hadley?"
"No... you go..."
"I know what you're thinking about, Grace, that mirror. Don't go back
tonight."
"Why not?"
"I dunno, I've just got a bad feeling about it -- and anyway, you've had
too many close shaves already. Frieda, Slick, and Mr. Newbold are
wandering around. So what if they can't see you? What if they walk into
you? What if you knock something over?"
"You sound like Henry."
170
"I'm serious, Grace, don't go."
But Grace only had one thought in her head, which was to get back in
front of the mirror, and Rhonda wasn't going to stop her.
That third night she found her way more quickly than before. She was
walking so fast she knew she was making more noise than was wise, but she
didn't meet anyone.
And there were her father and mother smiling at her again, and one of
her grandfathers nodding happily. Grace sank down to sit on the floor in
front of the mirror. There was nothing to stop her from staying here all
night with her family. Nothing at all.
Except --
"So -- back again, Grace?"
Grace felt as though her insides had turned to ice. She looked behind
her. Sitting on one of the desks by the wall was none other than Ally
Magee. Grace must have walked straight past her, so desperate to
get to the mirror she hadn't noticed her.
" -- I didn't see you, madam."
"Strange how nearsighted being invisible can make you," said Magee,
and Grace was relieved to see that she was smiling.
"So," said Magee, slipping off the desk to sit on the floor with
Grace, "you, like hundreds before you, have discovered the delights of
the Mirror of Erised."
"I didn't know it was called that, Madam."
"But I expect you've realized by now what it does?"
"It -- well -- it shows me my family --"
"And it showed your friend Rhonda herself as head girl."
"How did you know --?"
171
"I don't need a cloak to become invisible," said Magee gently.
"Now, can you think what the Mirror of Erised shows us all?"
Grace shook her head.
"Let me explain. The happiest woman on earth would be able to use the
Mirror of Erised like a normal mirror, that is, she would look into it
and see herself exactly as she is. Does that help?"
Grace thought. Then she said slowly, "It shows us what we want...
whatever we want..."
"Yes and no," said Magee quietly. "It shows us nothing more or less
than the deepest, most desperate desire of our hearts. You, who have
never known your family, see them standing around you. Rhonda Weasley,
who has always been overshadowed by her brothers, sees herself standing
alone, the best of all of them. However, this mirror will give us
neither knowledge or truth. Women have wasted away before it, entranced by
what they have seen, or been driven mad, not knowing if what it shows is
real or even possible.
"The Mirror will be moved to a new home tomorrow, Grace, and I ask you
not to go looking for it again. If you ever do run across it, you will
now be prepared. It does not do to dwell on dreams and forget to live,
remember that. Now, why don't you put that admirable cloak back on and
get off to bed?"
Grace stood up.
"Madam -- Professor Magee? Can I ask you something?"
"Obviously, you've just done so," Magee smiled. "You may ask me one
more thing, however."
"What do you see when you look in the mirror?"
"I? I see myself holding a pair of thick, woolen socks."
Grace stared.
"One can never have enough socks," said Magee. "Another Christmas
has come and gone and I didn't get a single pair. People will insist on
giving me books."
172
It was only when she was back in bed that it struck Grace that Magee
might not have been quite truthful. But then, she thought, as she shoved
Scabbers off her pillow, it had been quite a personal question.
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
NICOLAS FLAMEL
Magee had convinced Grace not to go looking for the Mirror of
Erised again, and for the rest of the Christmas holidays the
invisibility cloak stayed folded at the bottom of her trunk. Grace
wished she could forget what she'd seen in the mirror as easily, but she
couldn't. She started having nightmares. Over and over again she dreamed
about her parents disappearing in a flash of green light, while a high
voice cackled with laughter.
"You see, Magee was right, that mirror could drive you mad," said
Rhonda, when Grace told her about these drearns.
Henry, who came back the day before term started, took a different
view of things. He was torn between horror at the idea of Grace being
out of bed, roaming the school three nights in a row ("If Frieda had
caught you!"), and disappointment that she hadn't at least found out who
Katy Flamel was.
They had almost given up hope of ever finding Flamel in a li- brary
book, even though Grace was still sure she'd read the name somewhere.
Once term had started, they were back to skimming through books for ten
minutes during their breaks. Grace had even less time than the other
two, because Quidditch practice had started again.
Wood was working the team harder than ever. Even the endless rain that
had replaced the snow couldn't dampen her spirits. The Weasleys
complained that Wood was becoming a fanatic, but Grace was on Wood's
side. If they won their next match, against Hufflepuff, they would
overtake Slytherin in the house championship for the first time in seven
years. Quite apart from wanting to win, Grace found that she had fewer
nightmares when she was tired out after training.
Then, during one particularly wet and muddy practice session, Wood gave
the team a bit of bad news. She'd just gotten very angry with the
173
Weasleys, who kept dive-bombing each other and pretending to fall off
their brooms.
"Will you stop messing around!" she yelled. "That's exactly the sort of
thing that'll lose us the match! Slick's refereeing this time, and she'll
be looking for any excuse to knock points off Gryffindor!"
Rebecca Weasley really did fall off her broom at these words.
"Slick's refereeing?" she spluttered through a mouthful of mud. "When's
she ever refereed a Quidditch match? She's not going to be fair if we
might overtake Slytherin."
The rest of the team landed next to Rebecca to complain, too.
"It's not my fault," said Wood. "We've just got to make sure we play a
clean game, so Slick hasn't got an excuse to pick on us."
Which was all very well, thought Grace, but she had another reason for
not wanting Slick near her while she was playing Quidditch....
The rest of the team hung back to talk to one another as usual at the
end of practice, but Grace headed straight back to the Gryffindor common
room, where she found Rhonda and Henry playing chess. Chess was the only
thing Henry ever lost at, something Grace and Rhonda thought was very
good for him.
"Don't talk to me for a moment," said Rhonda when Grace sat down next to
her, "I need to concen --" She caught sight of Grace's face. "What's the
matter with you? You look terrible."
Speaking quietly so that no one else would hear, Grace told the other
two about Slick's sudden, sinister desire to be a Quidditch referee.
"Don't play," said Henry at once.
"Say you're ill," said Rhonda.
"Pretend to break your leg," Henry suggested.
"Really break your leg," said Rhonda.
"I can't," said Grace. "There isn't a reserve Seeker. If I back out,
174
Gryffindor can't play at all."
At that moment Shannon toppled into the common room. How she had managed
to climb through the portrait hole was anyone's guess, because her legs
had been stuck together with what they recognized at once as the
Leg-Locker Curse. She must have had to bunny hop all the way up to
Gryffindor tower.
Everyone fell over laughing except Henry, who leapt up and performed
the countercurse. Shannon's legs sprang apart and she got to her feet,
trembling. "What happened?" Henry asked her, leading her over to sit
with Grace and Rhonda.
"Flossy," said Shannon shakily. "I met her outside the library. She said
she'd been looking for someone to practice that on."
"Go to Professor Mitchell!" Henry urged Shannon. "Report her!"
Shannon shook her head.
"I don't want more trouble," she mumbled.
"You've got to stand up to her, Shannon!" said Rhonda. "She's used to
walking all over people, but that's no reason to lie down in front of
her and make it easier."
"There's no need to tell me I'm not brave enough to be in Gryffindor,
Flossy's already done that," Shannon choked out.
Grace felt in the pocket of her robes and pulled out a Chocolate Frog,
the very last one from the box Henry had given her for Christmas. She
gave it to Shannon, who looked as though she might cry.
"You're worth twelve of Flossy," Grace said. "The Sorting Hat chose you
for Gryffindor, didn't it? And where's Flossy? In stinking Slytherin."
Shannon's lips twitched in a weak smile as she unwrapped the frog.
"Thanks, Grace... I think I'll go to bed.... D'you want the card, you
collect them, don't you?"
As Shannon walked away, Grace looked at the Famous Wizard card.
175
"Magee again," she said, "She was the first one I ever-"
She gasped. She stared at the back of the card. Then she looked up at Rhonda
and Henry.
"I've found her!" she whispered. "I've found Flamel! I told you I'd read
the name somewhere before, I read it on the train coming here -- listen
to this: 'Magee is particularly famous for her defeat of the dark
wizard Grindelwald in 1945, for the discovery of the twelve uses of
dragon's blood, and her work on alchemy with her partner, Katy
Flamel'!"
Henry jumped to him feet. He hadn't looked so excited since they'd
gotten back the marks for their very first piece of homework.
"Stay there!" he said, and he sprinted up the stairs to the girls'
dormitories. Grace and Rhonda barely had time to exchange mystified looks
before he was dashing back, an enormous old book in him arms.
"I never thought to look in here!" he whispered excitedly. "I got this
out of the library weeks ago for a bit of light reading."
"Light?" said Rhonda, but Henry told her to be quiet until he'd looked
something up, and started flicking frantically through the pages,
muttering to himself.
At last he found what he was looking for.
"I knew it! I knew it!"
"Are we allowed to speak yet?" said Rhonda grumpily. Henry ignored her.
"Katy Flamel," he whispered dramatically, "is the only known maker
of the Sorcerer's Stone!"
This didn't have quite the effect he'd expected.
"The what?" said Grace and Rhonda.
"Oh, honestly, don't you two read? Look -- read that, there."
He pushed the book toward them, and Grace and Rhonda read: The ancient
study of alchemy is concerned with making the Sorcerer's Stone, a
176
legendary substance with astonishing powers. The stone will transform
any metal into pure gold. It also produces the Elixir of Life, which
will make the drinker immortal.
There have been many reports of the Sorcerer's Stone over the centuries,
but the only Stone currently in existence belongs to Mrs. Katy Flamel,
the noted alchemist and opera lover. Mrs. Flamel, who celebrated her six
hundred and sixty-fifth birthday last year, enjoys a quiet life in Devon
with her husband, Perenelle (six hundred and fifty-eight).
"See?" said Henry, when Grace and Rhonda had finished. "The dog must be
guarding Flamel's Sorcerer's Stone! I bet she asked Magee to keep it
safe for her, because they're friends and she knew someone was after it,
that's why she wanted the Stone moved out of Gringotts!"
"A stone that makes gold and stops you from ever dying!" said Grace. "No
wonder Slick's after it! Anyone would want it."
"And no wonder we couldn't find Flamel in that Study of Recent
Developments in Wizardry," said Rhonda. "She's not exactly recent if she's
six hundred and sixty-five, is she?"
The next morning in Defense Against the Dark Arts, while copying down
different ways of treating werewolf bites, Grace and Rhonda were still
discussing what they'd do with a Sorcerer's Stone if they had one. It
wasn't until Rhonda said she'd buy her own Quidditch team that Grace
remembered about Slick and the coming match.
"I'm going to play," she told Rhonda and Henry. "If I don't, all the
Slytherins will think I'm just too scared to face Slick. I'll show
them... it'll really wipe the smiles off their faces if we win."
"Just as long as we're not wiping you off the field," said Henry.
As the match drew nearer, however, Grace became more and more nervous,
whatever she told Rhonda and Henry. The rest of the team wasn't too calm,
either. The idea of overtaking Slytherin in the house championship was
wonderful, no one had done it for seven years, but would they be allowed
to, with such a biased referee?
Grace didn't know whether she was imagining it or not, but she seemed to
keep running into Slick wherever she went. At times, she even wondered
whether Slick was following her, trying to catch her on her own. Potions
177
lessons were turning into a sort of weekly torture, Slick was so
horrible to Grace. Could Slick possibly know they'd found out about the
Sorcerer's Stone? Grace didn't see how she could -- yet she sometimes had
the horrible feeling that Slick could read minds.
Grace knew, when they wished her good luck outside the locker rooms the
next afternoon, that Rhonda and Henry were wondering whether they'd ever
see her alive again. This wasn't what you'd call comforting. Grace
hardly heard a word of Wood's pep talk as she pulled on her Quidditch
robes and picked up her Nimbus Two Thousand.
Rhonda and Henry, meanwhile, had found a place in the stands next to
Shannon, who couldn't understand why they looked so grim and worried, or
why they had both brought their wands to the match. Little did Grace
know that Rhonda and Henry had been secretly practicing the Leg-Locker
Curse. They'd gotten the idea from Flossy using it on Shannon, and were
ready to use it on Slick if she showed any sign of wanting to hurt Grace.
"Now, don't forget, it's Locomotor Mortis," Henry muttered as Rhonda
slipped her wand up her sleeve.
"I know," Rhonda snapped. "Don't nag."
Back in the locker room, Wood had taken Grace aside.
"Don't want to pressure you, Potter, but if we ever need an early
capture of the Snitch it's now. Finish the game before Slick can favor
Hufflepuff too much."
"The whole school's out there!" said Lisa Weasley, peering out of the
door. "Even -- blimey -- Magee's come to watch!"
Grace's heart did a somersault.
"Magee?" she said, dashing to the door to make sure. Lisa was right.
There was no mistaking that silver chin.
Grace could have laughed out loud with relief She was safe. There was
simply no way that Slick would dare to try to hurt her if Magee was
watching.
Perhaps that was why Slick was looking so angry as the teams marched
onto the field, something that Rhonda noticed, too.
178
"I've never seen Slick look so mean," she told Henry. "Look -they're
off Ouch!"
Someone had poked Rhonda in the back of the head. It was Flossy.
"Oh, sorry, Weasley, didn't see you there."
Flossy grinned broadly at Collins and Jillin.
"Wonder how long Potter's going to stay on her broom this time? Anyone
want a bet? What about you, Weasley?"
Rhonda didn't answer; Slick had just awarded Hufflepuff a penalty because
Rebecca Weasley had hit a Bludger at her. Henry, who had all him
fingers crossed in him lap, was squinting fixedly at Grace, who was
circling the game like a hawk, looking for the Snitch.
"You know how I think they choose people for the Gryffindor team?" said
Flossy loudly a few minutes later, as Slick awarded Hufflepuff another
penalty for no reason at all. "It's people they feel sorry for. See,
there's Potter, who's got no parents, then there's the Weasleys, who've
got no money -- you should be on the team, Longbottom, you've got no
brains."
Shannon went bright red but turned in her seat to face Flossy.
"I'm worth twelve of you, Flossy," she stammered.
Flossy, Collins, and Jillin howled with laughter, but Rhonda, still not
daring to take her eyes from the game, said, "You tell her, Shannon."
"Longbottom, if brains were gold you'd be poorer than Weasley, and
that's saying something."
Rhonda's nerves were already stretched to the breaking point with anxiety
about Grace.
"I'm warning you, Flossy -- one more word
"Rhonda!" said Henry suddenly, "Grace --"
"What? Where?"
179
Grace had suddenly gone into a spectacular dive, which drew gasps and
cheers from the crowd. Henry stood up, him crossed fingers in him
mouth, as Grace streaked toward the ground like a bullet.
"You're in luck, Weasley, Potter's obviously spotted some money on the
ground!" said Flossy.
Rhonda snapped. Before Flossy knew what was happening, Rhonda was on top of
her, wrestling her to the ground. Shannon hesitated, then clambered over
the back of her seat to help.
"Come on, Grace!" Henry screamed, leaping onto him seat to watch as
Grace sped straight at Slick -- he didn't even notice Flossy and Rhonda
rolling around under him seat, or the scuffles and yelps coming from the
whirl of fists that was Shannon, Collins, and Jillin.
Up in the air, Slick turned on her broomstick just in time to see
something scarlet shoot past her, missing her by inches -- the next
second, Grace had pulled out of the dive, her arm raised in triumph, the
Snitch clasped in her hand.
The stands erupted; it had to be a record, no one could ever remember
the Snitch being caught so quickly.
"Rhonda! Rhonda! Where are you? The game's over! Grace's won! We've won!
Gryffindor is in the lead!" shrieked Henry, dancing up and down on
him seat and hugging Prince Patil in the row in front.
Grace jumped off her broom, a foot from the ground. She couldn't believe
it. She'd done it -- the game was over; it had barely lasted five
minutes. As Gryffindors came spilling onto the field, she saw Slick land
nearby, white-faced and tight-lipped -- then Grace felt a hand on her
shoulder and looked up into Magee's smiling face.
"Well done," said Magee quietly, so that only Grace could hear.
"Nice to see you haven't been brooding about that mirror... been keeping
busy... excellent..."
Slick spat bitterly on the ground.
Grace left the locker room alone some time later, to take her Nimbus Two
Thousand back to the broomshed. She couldn't ever remember feeling
180
happier. She'd really done something to be proud of now -- no one could
say she was just a famous name any more. The evening air had never
smelled so sweet. She walked over the damp grass, reliving the last hour
in her head, which was a happy blur: Gryffindors running to lift her
onto their shoulders; Rhonda and Henry in the distance, jumping up and
down, Rhonda cheering through a heavy nosebleed.
Grace had reached the shed. She leaned against the wooden door and looked
up at Hogwarts, with its windows glowing red in the setting sun.
Gryffindor in the lead. She'd done it, she'd shown Slick....
And speaking of Slick...
A hooded figure came swiftly down the front steps of the castle. Clearly
not wanting to be seen, it walked as fast as possible toward the
forbidden forest. Grace's victory faded from her mind as she watched. She
recognized the figure's prowling walk. Slick, sneaking into the forest
while everyone else was at dinner -- what was going on?
Grace jumped back on her Nimbus Two Thousand and took off. Gliding
silently over the castle she saw Slick enter the forest at a run. She
followed.
The trees were so thick she couldn't see where Slick had gone. She flew in
circles, lower and lower, brushing the top branches of trees until she
heard voices. She glided toward them and landed noiselessly in a towering
beech tree.
She climbed carefully along one of the branches, holding tight to her
broomstick, trying to see through the leaves. Below, in a shadowy
clearing, stood Slick, but she wasn't alone. Williams was there, too.
Grace couldn't make out the look on her face, but she was stuttering
worse than ever. Grace strained to catch what they were saying.
"... d-don't know why you wanted t-t-to meet here of all p-places,
Sally..."
"Oh, I thought we'd keep this private," said Slick, her voice icy.
"Students aren't supposed to know about the Sorcerer's Stone, after
all."
Grace leaned forward. Williams was mumbling something. Slick interrupted
her.
181
"Have you found out how to get past that beast of Hadley's yet?"
"B-b-but Sally, I --"
"You don't want me as your enemy, Williams," said Slick, taking a step
toward her.
"I-I don't know what you
"You know perfectly well what I mean."
An owl hooted loudly, and Grace nearly fell out of the tree. She steadied
herself in time to hear Slick say, "-- your little bit of hocus-pocus.
I'm waiting."
"B-but I d-d-don't --"
"Very well," Slick cut in. "We'll have another little chat soon, when
you've had time to think things over and decided where your loyalties
lie."
She threw her cloak over her head and strode out of the clearing. It was
almost dark now, but Grace could see Williams, standing quite still as
though she was petrified.
"Grace, where have you been?" Henry squeaked.
"We won! You won! We won!" shouted Rhonda, thumping Grace on the back. "And
I gave Flossy a black eye, and Shannon tried to take on Collins and Jillin
single-handed! She's still out cold but Sir Pomftey says she'll be all
right - talk about showing Slytherin! Everyone's waiting for you in the
common room, we're having a party, Lisa and Rebecca stole some cakes and
stuff from the kitchens."
"Never mind that now," said Grace breathlessly. "Let's find an empty
room, you wait 'til you hear this...."
She made sure Prissa wasn't inside before shutting the door behind them,
then she told them what she'd seen and heard.
"So we were right, it is the Sorcerer's Stone, and Slick's trying to
force Williams to help her get it. She asked if she knew how to get past
182
Fluffy - and she said something about Williams's 'hocus pocuss-- I reckon
there are other things guarding the stone apart from Fluffy, loads of
enchantments, probably, and Williams would have done some anti-Dark Arts
spell that Slick needs to break through --"
"So you mean the Stone's only safe as long as Williams stands up to
Slick?" said Henry in alarm.
"It'll be gone by next Tuesday," said Rhonda.
CHAPTER FOURTEEN
NORBERT THE NORWEGIAN RIDGEBACK
Williams, however, must have been braver than they'd thought. In the
weeks that followed she did seem to be getting paler and thinner, but it
didn't look as though she'd cracked yet.
Every time they passed the third-floor corridor, Grace, Rhonda, and
Henry would press their ears to the door to check that Fluffy was
still growling inside. Slick was sweeping about in her usual bad temper,
which surely meant that the Stone was still safe. Whenever Grace passed
Williams these days she gave her an encouraging sort of smile, and Rhonda
had started telling people off for laughing at Williams's stutter.
Henry, however, had more on him mind than the Sorcerer's Stone. He
had started drawing up study schedules and colorcoding all him notes.
Grace and Rhonda wouldn't have minded, but he kept nagging them to do the
same.
"Henry, the exams are ages away."
"Ten weeks," Henry snapped. "That's not ages, that's like a second to
Katy Flamel."
"But we're not six hundred years old," Rhonda reminded him. "Anyway, what
are you studying for, you already know it A."
"What am I studying for? Are you crazy? You realize we need to pass
these exams to get into the second year? They're very important, I
should have started studying a month ago, I don't know what's gotten
into me...."
183
Unfortunately, the teachers seemed to be thinking along the same lines
as Henry. They piled so much homework on them that the Easter
holidays weren't nearly as much fun as the Christmas ones. It was hard
to relax with Henry next to you reciting the twelve uses of dragon's
blood or practicing wand movements. Moaning and yawning, Grace and Rhonda
spent most of their free time in the library with him, trying to get
through all their extra work.
"I'll never remember this," Rhonda burst out one afternoon, throwing down
her quill and looking longingly out of the library window. It was the
first really fine day they'd had in months. The sky was a clear,
forget-me-not blue, and there was a feeling in the air of summer coming.
Grace, who was looking up "Dittany" in One Thousand Magical Herbs and
Fungi, didn't look up until she heard Rhonda say, "Hadley! What are you
doing in the library?"
Hadley shuffled into view, hiding something behind her back. She looked
very out of place in her moleskin overcoat.
"Jus' lookin'," she said, in a shifty voice that got their interest at
once. "An' what're you lot up ter?" She looked suddenly suspicious. "Yer
not still lookin' fer Katy Flamel, are yeh?" "Oh, we found out who she
is ages ago," said Rhonda impressively. "And we know what that dog's
guarding, it's a Sorcerer's St --"
"Shhhh!" Hadley looked around quickly to see if anyone was listening.
"Don' go shoutin' about it, what's the matter with yeh?"
"There are a few things we wanted to ask you, as a matter of fact," said
Grace, "about what's guarding the Stone apart from Fluffy --"
"SHHHH!" said Hadley again. "Listen - come an' see me later, I'm not
promisin' I'll tell yeh anythin', mind, but don' go rabbitin' about it
in here, students aren' s'pposed ter know. They'll think I've told yeh
--"
"See you later, then," said Grace.
Hadley shuffled off.
"What was she hiding behind her back?" said Henry thoughtfully.
184
"Do you think it had anything to do with the Stone?"
"I'm going to see what section she was in," said Rhonda, who'd had enough of
working. She came back a minute later with a pile of books in her arms
and slammed them down on the table.
"Dragons!" she whispered. "Hadley was looking up stuff about dragons!
Look at these: Dragon Species of Great Britain and Ireland; From Egg to
Inferno, A Dragon Keeper's Guide."
"Hadley's always wanted a dragon, she told me so the first time I ever
met her, " said Grace.
"But it's against our laws," said Rhonda. "Dragon breeding was outlawed by
the Warlocks' Convention of 1709, everyone knows that. It's hard to stop
Muggles from noticing us if we're keeping dragons in the back garden -
anyway, you can't tame dragons, it's dangerous. You should see the burns
Charlie's got off wild ones in Romania."
"But there aren't wild dragons in Britain?" said Grace.
"Of course there are," said Rhonda. "Common Welsh Green and Hebridean
Blacks. The Ministry of Magic has a job hushing them up, I can tell you.
Our kind have to keep putting spells on Muggles who've spotted them, to
make them forget."
"So what on earths Hadley up to?" said Henry.
When they knocked on the door of the gamekeeper's hut an hour later,
they were surprised to see that all the curtains were closed. Hadley
called "Who is it?" before she let them in, and then shut the door
quickly behind them.
It was stifling hot inside. Even though it was such a warm day, there
was a blazing fire in the grate. Hadley made them tea and offered them
stoat sandwiches, which they refused.
"So -- yeh wanted to ask me somethin'?"
"Yes," said Grace. There was no point beating around the bush. "We were
wondering if you could tell us what's guarding the Sorcerer's Stone
apart from Fluffy."
185
Hadley frowned at her.
"0' course I cant, she said. "Number one, I don' know meself. Number two,
yeh know too much already, so I wouldn' tell yeh if I could. That
Stone's here fer a good reason. It Was almost stolen outta Gringotts - I
s'ppose yeh've worked that out an' all? Beats me how yeh even know abou'
Fluffy."
"Oh, come on, Hadley, you might not want to tell us, but you do know,
you know everything that goes on round here," said Henry in a warm,
flattering voice. Hadley's chin twitched and they could tell she was
smiling. "We only wondered who had done the guarding, really." Henry
went on. "We wondered who Magee had trusted enough to help her,
apart from you."
Hadley's chest swelled at these last words. Grace and Rhonda beamed at
Henry.
"Well, I don' s'pose it could hurt ter tell yeh that... let's see... she
borrowed Fluffy from me... then some o' the teachers did enchantments...
Professor Sprout -- Professor Fister -- Professor Mitchell --" she
ticked them off on her fingers, "Professor Williams -- an' Magee
herself did somethin', o' course. Hang on, I've forgotten someone. Oh
yeah, Professor Slick."
"Slick?"
"Yeah -- yer not still on abou' that, are yeh? Look, Slick helped
protect the Stone, she's not about ter steal it."
Grace knew Rhonda and Henry were thinking the same as she was. If Slick
had been in on protecting the Stone, it must have been easy to find out
how the other teachers had guarded it. She probably knew everything --
except, it seemed, Williams's spell and how to get past Fluffy.
"You're the only one who knows how to get past Fluffy. aren't you,
Hadley?" said Grace anxiously. "And you wouldn't tell anyone, would you?
Not even one of the teachers?"
"Not a soul knows except me an' Magee," said Hadley proudly.
"Well, that's something," Grace muttered to the others. "Hadley, can we
186
have a window open? I'm boiling."
"Can't, Grace, sorry," said Hadley. Grace noticed her glance at the
fire. Grace looked at it, too.
"Hadley -- what's that?"
But she already knew what it was. In the very heart of the fire,
underneath the kettle, was a huge, black egg.
"Ah," said Hadley, fiddling nervously with her chin, "That's er..."
"Where did you get it, Hadley?" said Rhonda, crouching over the fire to get
a closer look at the egg. "It must've cost you a fortune."
"Won it," said Hadley. "Las' night. I was down in the village havin' a
few drinks an' got into a game o' cards with a stranger. Think she was
quite glad ter get rid of it, ter be honest."
"But what are you going to do with it when it's hatched?" said Henry.
"Well, I've bin doin' some readin' , said Hadley, pulling a large book
from under her pillow. "Got this outta the library -- Dragon Breeding
for Pleasure and Profit -- it's a bit outta date, o' course, but it's
all in here. Keep the egg in the fire, 'cause their mothers breathe on I
em, see, an' when it hatches, feed it on a bucket o' brandy mixed with
chicken blood every half hour. An' see here -- how ter recognize
diff'rent eggs -- what I got there's a Norwegian Ridgeback. They're
rare, them."
She looked very pleased with herself, but Henry didn't.
"Hadley, you live in a wooden house," he said.
But Hadley wasn't listening. She was humming merrily as she stoked the
fire.
So now they had something else to worry about: what might happen to
Hadley if anyone found out she was hiding an illegal dragon in her hut.
"Wonder what it's like to have a peaceful life," Rhonda sighed, as evening
after evening they struggled through all the extra homework they were
getting. Henry had now started making study schedules for Grace and
Rhonda, too. It was driving them nuts.
187
Then, one breakfast time, Hillary brought Grace another note from Hadley.
She had written only two words: It's hatching.
Rhonda wanted to skip Herbology and go straight down to the hut. Henry
wouldn't hear of it.
"Henry, how many times in our lives are we going to see a dragon
hatching?"
"We've got lessons, we'll get into trouble, and that's nothing to what
Hadley's going to be in when someone finds out what she's doing --"
"Shut up!" Grace whispered.
Flossy was only a few feet away and she had stopped dead to listen. How
much had she heard? Grace didn't like the look on Flossy's face at all.
Rhonda and Henry argued all the way to Herbology and in the end,
Henry agreed to run down to Hadley's with the other two during
morning break. When the bell sounded from the castle at the end of their
lesson, the three of them dropped their trowels at once and hurried
through the grounds to the edge of the forest. Hadley greeted them,
looking flushed and excited.
"It's nearly out." She ushered them inside.
The egg was lying on the table. There were deep cracks in it. Something
was moving inside; a funny clicking noise was coming from it.
They all drew their chairs up to the table and watched with bated
breath.
All at once there was a scraping noise and the egg split open. The baby
dragon flopped onto the table. It wasn't exactly pretty; Grace thought
it looked like a crumpled, black umbrella. Its spiny wings were huge
compared to its skinny jet body, it had a long snout with wide nostrils,
the stubs of horns and bulging, orange eyes.
It sneezed. A couple of sparks flew out of its snout.
"Isn't she beautiful?" Hadley murmured. She reached out a hand to stroke
the dragon's head. It snapped at her fingers, showing pointed fangs.
188
"Bless her, look, she knows her mommy!" said Hadley.
"Hadley," said Henry, "how fast do Norwegian Ridgebacks grow,
exactly?"
Hadley was about to answer when the color suddenly drained from her face
-- she leapt to her feet and ran to the window.
"What's the matter?"
"Someone was lookin' through the gap in the curtains -- it's a kid --
she's runnin' back up ter the school."
Grace bolted to the door and looked out. Even at a distance there was no
mistaking her.
Flossy had seen the dragon.
Something about the smile lurking on Flossy's face during the next week
made Grace, Rhonda, and Henry very nervous. They spent most of their
free time in Hadley's darkened hut, trying to reason with her.
"Just let her go," Grace urged. "Set her free."
"I can't," said Hadley. "She's too little. She'd die."
They looked at the dragon. It had grown three times in length in just a
week. Smoke kept furling out of its nostrils. Hadley hadn't been doing
her gamekeeping duties because the dragon was keeping her so busy. There
were empty brandy bottles and chicken feathers all over the floor.
"I've decided to call her Norbert," said Hadley, looking at the dragon
with misty eyes. "She really knows me now, watch. Norbert! Norbert!
Where's Mommy?"
"She's lost her marbles," Rhonda muttered in Grace's ear.
"Hadley," said Grace loudly, "give it two weeks and Norbert's going to
be as long as your house. Flossy could go to Magee at any moment."
Hadley bit her lip.
189
"I -- I know I can't keep her forever, but I can't jus' dump her, I
can't."
Grace suddenly turned to Rhonda. Charlie, she said.
"You're losing it, too," said Rhonda. "I'm Rhonda, remember?"
"No -- Charlie -- your sister, Charlie. In Romania. Studying dragons.
We could send Norbert to her. Charlie can take care of her and then put
her back in the wild!"
"Brilliant!" said Rhonda. "How about it, Hadley?"
And in the end, Hadley agreed that they could send -an owl to Charlie to
ask her.
The following week dragged by. Wednesday night found Henry and Grace
sitting alone in the common room, long after everyone else had gone to
bed. The clock on the wall had just
chimed midnight when the portrait hole burst open. Rhonda appeared out of
nowhere as she pulled off Grace's invisibility cloak. She had been down at
Hadley's hut, helping her feed Norbert, who was now eating dead rats by
the crate.
"It bit me!" she said, showing them her hand, which was wrapped in a
bloody handkerchief. "I'm not going to be able to hold a quill for a
week. I tell you, that dragon's the most horrible animal I've ever met,
but the way Hadley goes on about it, you'd think it was a fluffy little
bunny rabbit. When it bit me she told me off for frightening it. And when
I left, she was singing it a lullaby."
There was a tap on the dark window.
"It's Hillary!" said Grace, hurrying to let him in. "He'll have
Charlie's answer!"
The three of them put their heads together to read the note.
Dear Rhonda,
How are you? Thanks for the letter -- I'd be glad to take the Norwegian
Ridgeback, but it won't be easy getting her here. I think the best thing
190
will be to send her over with some friends of mine who are coming to
visit me next week. Trouble is, they mustn't be seen carrying an illegal
dragon.
Could you get the Ridgeback up the tallest tower at midnight on
Saturday? They can meet you there and take her away while it's still
dark.
Send me an answer as soon as possible.
Love,
Charlie
They looked at one another.
"We've got the invisibility cloak," said Grace. "It shouldn't be too
difficult -- I think the cloaks big enough to cover two of us and
Norbert."
It was a mark of how bad the last week had been that the other two
agreed with her. Anything to get rid of Norbert -- and Flossy.
There was a hitch. By the next morning, Rhonda's bitten hand had swollen to
twice its usual size. She didn't know whether it was safe to go to Sir
Phillips -- would he recognize a dragon bite? By the afternoon, though,
she had no choice. The cut had turned a nasty shade of green. It looked
as if Norbert's fangs were poisonous.
Grace and Henry rushed up to the hospital wing at the end of the day
to find Rhonda in a terrible state in bed.
"It's not just my hand," she whispered, "although that feels like it's
about to fall off. Flossy told Sir Phillips she wanted to borrow one of
my books so she could come and have a good laugh at me. She kept
threatening to tell him what really bit me -- I've told him it was a
dog, but I don't think he believes me -I shouldn't have hit her at the
Quidditch match, that's why she's doing this."
Grace and Henry tried to calm Rhonda down.
"It'll all be over at midnight on Saturday," said Henry, but this
didn't soothe Rhonda at all. On the contrary, she sat bolt upright and broke
191
into a sweat.
"Midnight on Saturday!" she said in a hoarse voice. "Oh no oh no -- I've
just remembered -- Charlie's letter was in that book Flossy took, she's
going to know we're getting rid of Norbert."
Grace and Henry didn't get a chance to answer. Sir Phillips came
over at that moment and made them leave, saying Rhonda needed sleep.
"It's too late to change the plan now," Grace told Henry. "We haven't
got time to send Charlie another owl, and this could be our only chance
to get rid of Norbert. We'll have to risk it. And we have got the
invisibility cloak, Flossy doesn't know about that."
They found Fang, the boarhound, sitting outside with a bandaged tail
when they went to tell Hadley, who opened a window to talk to them.
"I won't let you in," she puffed. "Norbert's at a tricky stage -- nothin'
I can't handle."
When they told her about Charlie's letter, her eyes filled with tears,
although that might have been because Norbert had just bitten her on the
leg.
"Aargh! It's all right, she only got my boot -- jus' playin' -- she's only
a baby, after all."
The baby banged its tail on the wall, making the windows rattle. Grace
and Henry walked back to the castle feeling Saturday couldn't come
quickly enough.
They would have felt sorry for Hadley when the time came for her to say
good-bye to Norbert if they hadn't been so worried about what they had
to do. It was a very dark, cloudy night, and they were a bit late
arriving at Hadley's hut because they'd had to wait for Prissa to get
out of their way in the entrance hall, where she'd been playing tennis
against the wall. Hadley had Norbert packed and ready in a large crate.
"She's got lots o' rats an' some brandy fer the journey," said Hadley in
a muffled voice. "An' I've packed her teddy bear in case she gets
lonely."
From inside the crate came ripping noises that sounded to Grace as
192
though the teddy was having her head torn off.
"Bye-bye, Norbert!" Hadley sobbed, as Grace and Henry covered the
crate with the invisibility cloak and stepped underneath it themselves.
"Mommy will never forget you!"
How they managed to get the crate back up to the castle, they never
knew. Midnight ticked nearer as they heaved Norbert up the marble
staircase in the entrance hall and along the dark corridors. UP another
staircase, then another -- even one of Grace's shortcuts didn't make the
work much easier.
"Nearly there!" Grace panted as they reached the corridor beneath the
tallest tower.
Then a sudden movement ahead of them made them almost drop the crate.
Forgetting that they were already invisible, they shrank into the
shadows, staring at the dark outlines of two people grappling with each
other ten feet away. A lamp flared.
Professor Mitchell, in a tartan bathrobe and a hair net, had Flossy by
the ear.
"Detention!" he shouted. "And twenty points from Slytherin! Wandering
around in the middle of the night, how dare you --"
"You don't understand, Professor. Grace Potter's coming -- she's got a
dragon!"
"What utter rubbish! How dare you tell such lies! Come on -- I shall see
Professor Slick about you, Flossy!"
The steep spiral staircase up to the top of the tower seemed the easiest
thing in the world after that. Not until they'd stepped out into the
cold night air did they throw off the cloak, glad to be able to breathe
properly again. Henry did a sort of jig.
"Flossy's got detention! I could sing!"
"Don't," Grace advised him.
Chuckling about Flossy, they waited, Norbert thrashing about in her
crate. About ten minutes later, four broomsticks came swooping down out
193
of the darkness.
Charlie's friends were a cheery lot. They showed Grace and Henry the
harness they'd rigged up, so they could suspend Norbert between them.
They all helped buckle Norbert safely into it and then Grace and
Henry shook hands with the others and thanked them very much.
At last, Norbert was going... going... gone.
They slipped back down the spiral staircase, their hearts as light as
their hands, now that Norbert was off them. No more dragon -- Flossy in
detention -- what could spoil their happiness?
The answer to that was waiting at the foot of the stairs. As they
stepped into the corridor, Frieda's face loomed suddenly out of the
darkness.
"Well, well, well," she whispered, "we are in trouble."
They'd left the invisibility cloak on top of the tower.
CHAPTER FIFTEEN
THE FORIBIDDEN FOREST
Things couldn't have been worse.
Frieda took them down to Professor Mitchell's study on the first floor,
where they sat and waited without saying a word to each other. Henry
was trembling. Excuses, alibis, and wild cover- up stories chased each
other around Grace's brain, each more feeble than the last. She couldn't
see how they were going to get out of trouble this time. They were
cornered. How could they have been so stupid as to forget the cloak?
There was no reason on earth that Professor Mitchell would accept for
their being out of bed and creeping around the school in the dead of
night, let alone being up the tallest astronomy tower, which was
out-of-bounds except for classes. Add Norbert and the invisibility
cloak, and they might as well be packing their bags already.
Had Grace thought that things couldn't have been worse? She was wrong.
When Professor Mitchell appeared, he was leading Shannon.
194
"Grace!" Shannon burst Out, the moment she saw the other two. "I was
trying to find you to warn you, I heard Flossy saying she was going to
catch you, she said you had a drag --"
Grace shook her head violently to shut Shannon up, but Professor
Mitchell had seen. He looked more likely to breathe fire than Norbert
as he towered over the three of them.
"I would never have believed it of any of you. Mrs. Frieda says you were
up in the astronomy tower. It's one o'clock in the morning. Explain
yourselves."
It was the first time Henry had ever failed to answer a teacher's
question. He was staring at him slippers, as still as a statue.
"I think I've got a good idea of what's been going on," said Professor
Mitchell. "It doesn't take a genius to work it out. You fed Draco
Flossy some cock-and-bull story about a dragon, trying to get her out of
bed and into trouble. I've already caught her. I suppose you think it's
funny that Longbottom here heard the story and believed it, too?"
Grace caught Shannon's eye and tried to tell her without words that this
wasn't true, because Shannon was looking stunned and hurt. Poor,
blundering Shannon -- Grace knew what it must have cost her to try and
find them in the dark, to warn them.
"I'm disgusted," said Professor Mitchell. "Four students out of bed in
one night! I've never heard of such a thing before! You, Sir Granger, I
thought you had more sense. As for you, Mrs. Potter, I thought Gryffindor
meant more to you than this. All three of you will receive detentions --
yes, you too, Mrs. Longbottom, nothing gives you the right to walk around
school at night, especially these days, it's very dangerous -- and fifty
points will be taken from Gryffindor."
"Fifty?" Grace gasped -- they would lose the lead, the lead she'd won in
the last Quidditch match.
"Fifty points each," said Professor Mitchell, breathing heavily
through him long, pointed nose.
"Professor -- please
"You can't --"
195
"Don't tell me what I can and can't do, Potter. Now get back to bed, all
of you. I've never been more ashamed of Gryffindor students."
A hundred and fifty points lost. That put Gryffindor in last place. In
one night, they'd ruined any chance Gryffindor had had for the house
cup. Grace felt as though the bottom had dropped out of her stomach. How
could they ever make up for this?
Grace didn't sleep all night. She could hear Shannon sobbing into her
pillow for what seemed like hours. Grace couldn't think of anything to
say to comfort her. She knew Shannon, like herself, was dreading the
dawn. What would happen when the rest of Gryffindor found out what
they'd done?
At first, Gryffindors passing the giant hourglasses that recorded the
house points the next day thought there'd been a mistake. How could they
suddenly have a hundred and fifty points fewer than yesterday? And then
the story started to spread: Grace Potter, the famous Grace Potter,
their hero of two Quidditch matches, had lo st them all those points,
her and a couple of other stupid first years.
From being one of the most popular and admired people at the school,
Grace was suddenly the most hated. Even Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs
turned on her, because everyone had been longing to see Slytherin lose
the house cup. Everywhere Grace went, people pointed and didn't trouble
to lower their voices as they insulted her. Slytherins, on the other
hand, clapped as she walked past them, whistling and cheering, "Thanks
Potter, we owe you one!"
Only Rhonda stood by her.
"They'll all forget this in a few weeks. Lisa and Rebecca have lost loads
of points in all the time they've been here, and people still like
them."
"They've never lost a hundred and fifty points in one go, though, have
they?" said Grace miserably.
"Well -- no," Rhonda admitted.
It was a bit late to repair the damage, but Grace swore to herself not
to meddle in things that weren't her business from now on. She'd had it
196
with sneaking around and spying. She felt so ashamed of herself that she
went to Wood and offered to resign from the Quidditch team.
"Resign?" Wood thundered. "What good'll that do? How are we going to get
any points back if we can't win at Quidditch?"
But even Quidditch had lost its fun. The rest of the team wouldn't speak
to Grace during practice, and if they had to speak about her, they
called her "the Seeker."
Henry and Shannon were suffering, too. They didn't have as bad a time
as Grace, because they weren't as well-known, but nobody would speak to
them, either. Henry had stopped drawing attention to himself in
class, keeping him head down and working in silence.
Grace was almost glad that the exams weren't far away. All the studying
she had to do kept her mind off her misery. She, Rhonda, and Henry kept to
themselves, working late into the night, trying to remember the
ingredients in complicated potions, learn charms and spells by heart,
memorize the dates of magical discoveries and goblin rebellions....
Then, about a week before the exams were due to start, Grace's new
resolution not to interfere in anything that didn't concern her was put
to an unexpected test. Walking back from the library on her own one
afternoon, she heard somebody whimpering from a classroom up ahead. As she
drew closer, she heard Williams's voice.
"No -- no -- not again, please --"
It sounded as though someone was threatening her. Grace moved closer.
"All right -- all right --" she heard Williams sob.
Next second, Williams came hurrying out of the classroom straightening
her turban. She was pale and looked as though she was about to cry. She
strode out of sight; Grace didn't think Williams had even noticed her.
She waited until Williams's footsteps had disappeared, then peered into
the classroom. It was empty, but a door stood ajar at the other end.
Grace was halfway toward it before she remembered what she'd promised
herself about not meddling.
All the same, she'd have gambled twelve Sorcerer's Stones that Slick had
just left the room, and from what Grace had just heard, Slick would be
197
walking with a new spring in her step -- Williams seemed to have given
in at last.
Grace went back to the library, where Henry was testing Rhonda on
Astronomy. Grace told them what she'd heard.
"Slick's done it, then!" said Rhonda. "If Williams's told her how to break
her Anti-Dark Force spell --"
"There's still Fluffy, though," said Henry.
"Maybe Slick's found out how to get past her without asking Hadley,"
said Rhonda, looking up at the thousands of books surrounding them. "I bet
there's a book somewhere in here telling you how to get past a giant
three-headed dog. So what do we do, Grace?"
The light of adventure was kindling again in Rhonda's eyes, but Henry
answered before Grace could.
"Go to Magee. That's what we should have done ages ago. If we try
anything ourselves we'll be thrown out for sure."
"But we've got no proof!" said Grace. "Williams's too scared to back us
up. Slick's only got to say she doesn't know how the troll got in at
Halloween and that she was nowhere near the third floor -- who do you
think they'll believe, her or us? It's not exactly a secret we hate her,
Magee'll think we made it up to get her sacked. Frieda wouldn't help
us if her life depended on it, she's too friendly with Slick, and the
more students get thrown out, the better, she'll think. And don't forget,
we're not supposed to know about the Stone or Fluffy. That'll take a lot
of explaining."
Henry looked convinced, but Rhonda didn't.
"If we just do a bit of poking around --"
"No," said Grace flatly, "we've done enough poking around."
She pulled a map of Jupiter toward her and started to learn the names of
its moons.
The following morning, notes were delivered to Grace, Henry, and
Shannon at the breakfast table. They were all the same:
198
Your detention will take place at eleven o'clock tonight. Meet Mrs. Frieda
in the entrance hall.
Professor Mitchell Grace had forgotten they still had detentions to do
in the furor over the points they'd lost. She half expected Henry to
complain that this was a whole night of studying lost, but he didn't
say a word. Like Grace, he felt they deserved what they'd got.
At eleven o'clock that night, they said good-bye to Rhonda in the common
room and went down to the entrance hall with Shannon. Frieda was already
there -- and so was Flossy. Grace had also forgotten that Flossy had
gotten a detention, too.
"Follow me," said Frieda, lighting a lamp and leading them outside.
I bet you'll think twice about breaking a school rule again, won't you,
eh?" she said, leering at them. "Oh yes... hard work and pain are the
best teachers if you ask me.... It's just a pity they let the old
punishments die out... hang you by your wrists from the ceiling for a
few days, I've got the chains still in my office, keep 'em well oiled in
case they're ever needed.... Right, off we go, and don't think of
running off, now, it'll be worse for you if you do."
They marched off across the dark grounds. Shannon kept sniffing. Grace
wondered what their punishment was going to be. It must be something
really horrible, or Frieda wouldn't be sounding so delighted.
The moon was bright, but clouds scudding across it kept throwing them
into darkness. Ahead, Grace could see the lighted windows of Hadley's
hut. Then they heard a distant shout.
"Is that you, Frieda? Hurry up, I want ter get started."
Grace's heart rose; if they were going to be working with Hadley it
wouldn't be so bad. Hers relief must have showed in her -face, because
Frieda said, "I suppose you think you'll be enjoying yourself with that
oaf? Well, think again, girl -- it's into the forest you're going and I'm
much mistaken if you'll all come out in one piece."
At this, Shannon let out a little moan, and Flossy stopped dead in her
tracks.
199
"The forest?" she repeated, and she didn't sound quite as cool as usual.
"We can't go in there at night -- there's all sorts of things in there
-- werewolves, I heard."
Shannon clutched the sleeve of Grace's robe and made a choking noise.
"That's your problem, isn't it?" said Frieda, her voice cracking with
glee. "Should've thought of them werewolves before you got in trouble,
shouldn't you?"
Hadley came striding toward them out of the dark, Fang at her heel. She
was carrying her large crossbow, and a quiver of arrows hung over her
shoulder.
"Abou' time," she said. "I bin waitin' fer half an hour already. All
right, Grace, Henry?"
"I shouldn't be too friendly to them, Hadley," said Frieda coldly,
they're here to be punished, after all."
"That's why yer late, is it?" said Hadley, frowning at Frieda. "Bin
lecturin' them, eh? 'Snot your place ter do that. Yeh've done yer bit,
I'll take over from here."
"I'll be back at dawn," said Frieda, "for what's left of them," she added
nastily, and she turned and started back toward the castle, her lamp
bobbing away in the darkness.
Flossy now turned to Hadley.
"I'm not going in that forest, she said, and Grace was pleased to hear
the note of panic in her voice.
"Yeh are if yeh want ter stay at Hogwarts," said Hadley fiercely.
"Yeh've done wrong an' now yehve got ter pay fer it."
"But this is servant stuff, it's not for students to do. I thought we'd
be copying lines or something, if my mother knew I was doing this, she'd
tell yer that's how it is at Hogwarts," Hadley growled. "Copyin' lines!
What good's that ter anyone? Yeh'll do summat useful or Yeh'll get out.
If yeh think yer mother'd rather you were expelled, then get back off
ter the castle an' pack. Go on"'
200
Flossy didn't move. She looked at Hadley furiously, but then dropped her
gaze.
"Right then," said Hadley, "now, listen carefully, 'cause it's dangerous
what we're gonna do tonight, an' I don' want no one takin' risks. Follow
me over here a moment."
She led them to the very edge of the forest. Holding her lamp up high, she
pointed down a narrow, winding earth track that disappeared into the
thick black trees. A light breeze lifted their hair as they looked into
the forest.
"Look there," said Hadley, "see that stuff shinin' on the ground?
Silvery stuff? That's unicorn blood. There's a unicorn in there bin hurt
badly by summat. This is the second time in a week. I found one dead
last Wednesday. We're gonna try an' find the poor thing. We might have
ter put it out of its misery."
"And what if whatever hurt the unicorn finds us first?" said Flossy,
unable to keep the fear out of her voice.
"There's nothin' that lives in the forest that'll hurt yeh if yer with
me or Fang," said Hadley. "An' keep ter the path. Right, now, we're
gonna split inter two parties an' follow the trail in diff'rent
directions. There's blood all over the place, it must've bin staggerin'
around since last night at least."
"I want Fang," said Flossy quickly, looking at Fang's long teeth.
"All right, but I warn yeh, she's a coward," said Hadley. " So me, Grace,
an' Henry'll go one way an' Draco, Shannon, an' Fang'll go the other.
Now, if any of us finds the unicorn, we'll send up green sparks, right?
Get yer wands out an' practice now -- that's it -- an' if anyone gets in
trouble, send up red sparks, an' we'll all come an' find yeh -- so, be
careful -- let's go."
The forest was black and silent. A little way into it they reached a
fork in the earth path, and Grace, Henry, and Hadley took the left
path while Flossy, Shannon, and Fang took the right.
They walked in silence, their eyes on the ground. Every now and then a
ray of moonlight through the branches above lit a spot of silver-blue
201
blood on the fallen leaves.
Grace saw that Hadley looked very worried.
"Could a werewolf be killing the unicorns?" Grace asked.
"Not fast enough," said Hadley. "It's not easy ter catch a unicorn,
they're powerful magic creatures. I never knew one ter be hurt before."
They walked past a mossy tree stump. Grace could hear running water;
there must be a stream somewhere close by. There were still spots of
unicorn blood here and there along the winding path.
"You all right, Henry?" Hadley whispered. "Don' worry, it can't've
gone far if it's this badly hurt, an' then we'll be able ter -- GET
BEHIND THAT TREE!"
Hadley seized Grace and Henry and hoisted them off the path behind a
towering oak. She pulled out an arrow and fitted it into her crossbow,
raising it, ready to fire. The three of them listened. Something was
slithering over dead leaves nearby: it sounded like a cloak trailing
along the ground. Hadley was squinting up the dark path, but after a few
seconds, the sound faded away.
"I knew it, " she murmured. "There's summat in here that shouldn' be."
"A werewolf?" Grace suggested.
"That wasn' no werewolf an' it wasn' no unicorn, neither," said Hadley
grimly. "Right, follow me, but careful, now."
They walked more slowly, ears straining for the faintest sound.
Suddenly, in a clearing ahead, something definitely moved.
"Who's there?" Hadley called. "Show yerself -- I'm armed!"
And into the clearing came -- was it a woman, or a horse? To the waist, a
woman, with red hair and chin, but below that was a horse's gleaming
chestnut body with a long, reddish tail. Grace and Henry's jaws
dropped.
"Oh, it's you, Roslyn," said Hadley in relief. "How are yeh?"
202
She walked forward and shook the centaur's hand.
"Good evening to you, Hadley," said Roslyn. She had a deep, sorrowful
voice. "Were you going to shoot me?"
"Can't be too careful, Roslyn," said Hadley, patting her crossbow.
"There's summat bad loose in this forest. This is Grace Potter an'
Henry Granger, by the way. Students up at the school. An' this is
Roslyn, you two. She's a centaur.))
"We'd noticed," said Henry faintly.
"Good evening," said Roslyn. "Students, are you? And do you learn much,
up at the school?"
"Erm --"
"A bit," said Henry timidly.
"A bit. Well, that's something." Roslyn sighed. She flung back her head
and stared at the sky. "Mars is bright tonight."
"Yeah," said Hadley, glancing up, too. "Listen, I'm glad we've run inter
yeh, Roslyn, 'cause there's a unicorn bin hurt -- you seen anythin'?"
Roslyn didn't answer immediately. She stared unblinkingly upward, then
sighed again.
"Always the innocent are the first victims," she said. "So it has been
for ages past, so it is now."
"Yeah," said Hadley, "but have yeh seen anythin', Roslyn? Anythin'
unusual?"
"Mars is bright tonight," Roslyn repeated, while Hadley watched her
impatiently. "Unusually bright."
"Yeah, but I was meanin' anythin' unusual a bit nearer home, said
Hadley. "So yeh haven't noticed anythin' strange?"
Yet again, Roslyn took a while to answer. At last, she said, "The forest
hides many secrets."
203
A movement in the trees behind Roslyn made Hadley raise her bow again,
but it was only a second centaur, black-haired and -bodied and
wilder-looking than Roslyn.
"Hullo, Bette," said Hadley. "All right?"
"Good evening, Hadley, I hope you are well?"
"Well enough. Look, I've jus' bin askin' Roslyn, you seen anythin' odd in
here lately? There's a unicorn bin injured -- would yeh know anythin'
about it?"
Bette walked over to stand next to Roslyn. She looked skyward. "Mars is
bright tonight," she said simply.
"We've heard," said Hadley grumpily. "Well, if either of you do see
anythin', let me know, won't yeh? We'll be off, then."
Grace and Henry followed her out of the clearing, staring over their
shoulders at Roslyn and Bette until the trees blocked their view.
"Never," said Hadley irritably, "try an' get a straight answer out of a
centaur. Ruddy stargazers. Not interested in anythin' closer'n the
moon."
"Are there many of them in here?" asked Henry.
"Oh, a fair few... Keep themselves to themselves mostly, but they're
good enough about turnin' up if ever I want a word. They're deep, mind,
centaurs... they know things... jus' don' let on much."
"D'you think that was a centaur we heard earlier?" said Grace.
"Did that sound like hooves to you? Nah, if yeh ask me, that was what's
bin killin' the unicorns -- never heard anythin' like it before."
They walked on through the dense, dark trees. Grace kept looking
nervously over her shoulder. She had the nasty feeling they were being
watched. She was very glad they had Hadley and her crossbow with them.
They had just passed a bend in the path when Henry grabbed Hadley's
arm.
"Hadley! Look! Red sparks, the others are in trouble!"
204
"You two wait here!" Hadley shouted. "Stay on the path, I'll come back
for yeh!"
They heard her crashing away through the undergrowth and stood looking
at each other, very scared, until they couldn't hear anything but the
rustling of leaves around them.
"You don't think they've been hurt, do you?" whispered Henry.
"I don't care if Flossy has, but if something's got Shannon... it's our
fault she's here in the first place."
The minutes dragged by. Their ears seemed sharper than usual. Grace's
seemed to be picking up every sigh of the wind, every cracking twig.
What was going on? Where were the others?
At last, a great crunching noise announced Hadley's return. Flossy,
Shannon, and Fang were with her. Hadley was fuming. Flossy, it seemed,
had sneaked up behind Shannon and grabbed her as a joke. Shannon had
panicked and sent up the sparks.
"We'll be lucky ter catch anythin' now, with the racket you two were
makin'. Right, we're changin' groups -- Shannon, you stay with me an'
Henry, Grace, you go with Fang an' this idiot. I'm sorry," Hadley
added in a whisper to Grace, "but she'll have a harder time frightenin'
you, an' we've gotta get this done."
So Grace set off into the heart of the forest with Flossy and Fang. They
walked for nearly half an hour, deeper and deeper into the forest, until
the path became almost impossible to follow because the trees were so
thick. Grace thought the blood seemed to be getting thicker. There were
splashes on the roots of a tree, as though the poor creature had been
thrashing around in pain close by. Grace could see a clearing ahead,
through the tangled branches of an ancient oak.
"Look --" she murmured, holding out her arm to stop Flossy.
Something bright white was gleaming on the ground. They inched closer.
It was the unicorn all right, and it was dead. Grace had never seen
anything so beautiful and sad. Its long, slender legs were stuck out at
odd angles where it had fallen and its mane was spread pearly-white on
205
the dark leaves.
Grace had taken one step toward it when a slithering sound made her
freeze where she stood. A bush on the edge of the clearing quivered....
Then, out of the shadows, a hooded figure came crawling across the
ground like some stalking beast. Grace, Flossy, and Fang stood
transfixed. The cloaked figure reached the unicorn, lowered its head
over the wound in the animal's side, and began to drink its blood.
"AAAAAAAAAARGH!"
Flossy let out a terrible scream and bolted -- so did Fang. The hooded
figure raised its head and looked right at Grace -- unicorn blood was
dribbling down its front. It got to its feet and came swiftly toward
Grace -- she couldn't move for fear.
Then a pain like she'd never felt before pierced her head; it was as
though her scar were on fire. Half blinded, she staggered backward. She
heard hooves behind her, galloping, and something jumped clean over
Grace, charging at the figure.
The pain in Grace's head was so bad she fell to her knees. It took a
minute or two to pass. When she looked up, the figure had gone. A centaur
was standing over her, not Roslyn or Bette; this one looked younger; she
had white-blond hair and a palomino body.
"Are you all right?" said the centaur, pulling Grace to her feet.
"Yes -- thank you -- what was that?"
The centaur didn't answer. She had astonishingly blue eyes, like pale
sapphires. She looked carefully at Grace, her eyes lingering on the scar
that stood out, livid, on Grace's forehead.
"You are the Potter girl," she said. "You had better get back to Hadley.
The forest is not safe at this time -- especially for you. Can you ride?
It will be quicker this way.
"My name is Philly," she added, as she lowered herself on to her front
legs so that Grace could clamber onto her back.
There was suddenly a sound of more galloping from the other side of the
clearing. Roslyn and Bette came bursting through the trees, their flanks
206
heaving and sweaty.
"Philly!" Bette thundered. "What are you doing? You have a human on your
back! Have you no shame? Are you a common mule?"
"Do you realize who this is?" said Philly. "This is the Potter girl. The
quicker she leaves this forest, the better."
"What have you been telling her?" growled Bette. "Remember, Philly, we
are sworn not to set ourselves against the heavens. Have we not read
what is to come in the movements of the planets?"
Roslyn pawed the ground nervously. "I'm sure Philly thought she was
acting for the best, " she said in her gloomy voice.
Bette kicked her back legs in anger.
"For the best! What is that to do with us? Centaurs are concerned with
what has been foretold! It is not our business to run around like
donkeys after stray humans in our forest!"
Philly suddenly reared on to her hind legs in anger, so that Grace had
to grab her shoulders to stay on.
"Do you not see that unicorn?" Philly bellowed at Bette. "Do you not
understand why it was killed? Or have the planets not let you in on that
secret? I set myself against what is lurking in this forest, Bette, yes,
with humans alongside me if I must."
And Philly whisked around; with Grace clutching on as best she could,
they plunged off into the trees, leaving Roslyn and Bette behind them.
Grace didn't have a clue what was going on.
"Why's Bette so angry?" she asked. "What was that thing you saved me from,
anyway?"
Philly slowed to a walk, warned Grace to keep her head bowed in case of
low-hanging branches, but did not answer Grace's question. They made
their way through the trees in silence for so long that Grace thought
Philly didn't want to talk to her anymore. They were passing through a
particularly dense patch of trees, however, when Philly suddenly
stopped.
207
"Grace Potter, do you know what unicorn blood is used -for?"
"No," said Grace, startled by the odd question. "We've only used the
horn and tail hair in Potions."
"That is because it is a monstrous thing, to slay a unicorn," said
Philly. "Only one who has nothing to lose, and everything to gain,
would commit such a crime. The blood of a unicorn will keep you alive,
even if you are an inch from death, but at a terrible price. You have
slain something pure and defenseless to save yourself, and you will have
but a half-life, a cursed life, from the moment the blood touches your
lips."
Grace stared at the back of Philly's head, which was dappled silver in
the moonlight.
"But who'd be that desperate?" she wondered aloud. "If you're going to be
cursed forever, deaths better, isn't it?"
"It is," Philly agreed, "unless all you need is to stay alive long
enough to drink something else -- something that will bring you back to
full strength and power -- something that will mean you can never die.
Mrs. Potter, do you know what is hidden in the school at this very
moment?"
"The Sorcerer's Stone! Of course -- the Elixir of Life! But I don't
understand who --"
"Can you think of nobody who has waited many years to return to power,
who has clung to life, awaiting their chance?"
It was as though an iron fist had clenched suddenly around Grace's
heart. Over the rustling of the trees, she seemed to hear once more what
Hadley had told her on the night they had met: "Some say she died.
Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if she had enough human left in her to
die."
"Do you mean," Grace croaked, "that was Vol-"
"Grace! Grace, are you all right?"
Henry was running toward them down the path, Hadley puffing along
208
behind him.
"I'm fine," said Grace, hardly knowing what she was saying. "The
unicorn's dead, Hadley, it's in that clearing back there."
"This is where I leave you," Philly murmured as Hadley hurried off to
examine the unicorn. "You are safe now."
Grace slid off her back.
"Good luck, Grace Potter," said Philly. "The planets have been read
wrongly before now, even by centaurs. I hope this is one of those
times."
She turned and cantered back into the depths of the forest, leaving Grace
shivering behind her.
Rhonda had fallen asleep in the dark common room, waiting for them to
return. She shouted something about Quidditch fouls when Grace roughly
shook her awake. In a matter of seconds, though, she was wide-eyed as
Grace began to tell her and Henry what had happened in the forest.
Grace couldn't sit down. She paced up and down in front of the fire. She
was still shaking.
"Slick wants the stone for Spradulus... and Spradulus's waiting in the
forest... and all this time we thought Slick just wanted to get
rich...."
"Stop saying the name!" said Rhonda in a terrified whisper, as if she
thought Spradulus could hear them.
Grace wasn't listening.
"Philly saved me, but she shouldn't have done so.... Bette was furious...
she was talking about interfering with what the planets say is going to
happen.... They must show that Spradulus's coming back.... Bette thinks
Philly should have let Spradulus kill me.... I suppose that's written
in the stars as well."
"Will you stop saying the name!" Rhonda hissed.
"So all I've got to wait for now is Slick to steal the Stone," Grace
209
went on feverishly, "then Spradulus will be able to come and finish me
off... Well, I suppose Bette'll be happy."
Henry looked very frightened, but he had a word of comfort.
"Grace, everyone says Magee's the only one You-Know-Who was ever
afraid of With Magee around, You-Know-Who won't touch you. Anyway,
who says the centaurs are right? It sounds like fortune-telling to me,
and Professor Mitchell says that's a very imprecise branch of magic."
The sky had turned light before they stopped talking. They went to bed
exhausted, their throats sore. But the night's surprises weren't over.
When Grace pulled back her sheets, she found her invisibility cloak
folded neatly underneath them. There was a note pinned to it:
Just in case.
CHAPTER SIXTEEN
THROUGH THE TRAPDOOR
In years to come, Grace would never quite remember how she had managed to
get through her exams when she half expected Spradulus to come bursting
through the door at any moment. Yet the days crept by, and there could
be no doubt that Fluffy was still alive and well behind the locked door.
It was sweltering hot, especially in the large classroom where they did
their written papers. They had been given special, new quills for the
exams, which had been bewitched with an AntiCheating spell.
They had practical exams as well. Professor Fister called them one by
one into her class to see if they could make a pineapple tapdance across
a desk. Professor Mitchell watched them turn a mouse into a snuffbox
-- points were given for how pretty the snuffbox was, but taken away if
it had whiskers. Slick made them all nervous, breathing down their necks
while they tried to remember how to make a Forgetfulness potion.
Grace did the best she could, trying to ignore the stabbing pains in her
forehead, which had been bothering her ever since her trip into the
forest. Shannon thought Grace had a bad case of exam nerves because
Grace couldn't sleep, but the truth was that Grace kept being woken by
210
her old nightmare, except that it was now worse than ever because there
was a hooded figure dripping blood in it.
Maybe it was because they hadn't seen what Grace had seen in the forest,
or because they didn't have scars burning on their foreheads, but Rhonda
and Henry didn't seem as worried about the Stone as Grace. The idea
of Spradulus certainly scared them, but she didn't keep visiting them in
dreams, and they were so busy with their studying they didn't have much
time to fret about what Slick or anyone else might be up to.
Their very last exam was History of Magic. One hour of answering
questions about batty old wizards who'd invented selfstirring cauldrons
and they'd be free, free for a whole wonderful week until their exam
results came out. When the ghost of Professor Binns told them to put
down their quills and roll up their parchment, Grace couldn't help
cheering with the rest.
"That was far easier than I thought it would be," said Henry as they
joined the crowds flocking out onto the sunny grounds. "I needn't have
learned about the 1637 Werewolf Code of Conduct or the uprising of
Elfric the Eager."
Henry always liked to go through their exam papers afterward, but Rhonda
said this made her feel ill, so they wandered down to the lake and
flopped under a tree. The Weasley twins and Lee Jackson were tickling the
tentacles of a giant squid, which was basking in the warm shallows. "No
more studying," Rhonda sighed happily, stretching out on the grass. "You
could look more cheerful, Grace, we've got a week before we find out how
badly we've done, there's no need to worry yet."
Grace was rubbing her forehead.
"I wish I knew what this means!" she burst out angrily. "My scar keeps
hurting -- it's happened before, but never as often as this."
"Go to Sir Phillips," Henry suggested.
"I'm not ill," said Grace. "I think it's a warning... it means danger's
coming...."
Rhonda couldn't get worked up, it was too hot.
"Grace, relax, Henry's right, the Stone's safe as long as
211
Magee's around. Anyway, we've never had any proof Slick found out
how to get past Fluffy. She nearly had her leg ripped off once, she's not
going to try it again in a hurry. And Shannon will play Quidditch for
England before Hadley lets Magee down."
Grace nodded, but she couldn't shake off a lurking feeling that there was
something she'd forgotten to do, something important. When she tried to
explain this, Henry said, "That's just the exams. I woke up last
night and was halfway through my Transfiguration notes before I
remembered we'd done that one."
Grace was quite sure the unsettled feeling didn't have anything to do
with work, though. She watched an owl flutter toward the school across
the bright blue sky, a note clamped in its mouth. Hadley was the only
one who ever sent her letters. Hadley would never betray Magee.
Hadley would never tell anyone how to get past Fluffy... never... but --
Grace suddenly jumped to her feet.
"Where're you going?" said Rhonda sleepily.
"I've just thought of something," said Grace. She had turned white.
"We've got to go and see Hadley, now."
"Why?" panted Henry, hurrying to keep up.
"Don't you think it's a bit odd," said Grace, scrambling up the grassy
slope, "that what Hadley wants more than anything else is a dragon, and
a stranger turns up who just happens to have an egg in her pocket? How
many people wander around with dragon eggs if it's against wizard law?
Lucky they found Hadley, don't you think? Why didn't I see it before?"
"What are you talking about?" said Rhonda, but Grace, sprinting across the
grounds toward the forest, didn't answer.
Hadley was sitting in an armchair outside her house; her trousers and
sleeves were rolled up, and she was shelling peas into a large bowl.
"Hullo," she said, smiling. "Finished yer exams? Got time fer a drink?"
"Yes, please," said Rhonda, but Grace cut her off.
"No, we're in a hurry. Hadley, I've got to ask you something. You know
212
that night you won Norbert? What did the stranger you were playing cards
with look like?"
"Dunno," said Hadley casually, "she wouldn' take her cloak off."
She saw the three of them look stunned and raised her eyebrows.
"It's not that unusual, yeh get a lot o' funny folk in the Hog's Head --
that's the pub down in the village. Mighta bin a dragon dealer, mightn'
she? I never saw her face, she kept her hood up."
Grace sank down next to the bowl of peas. "What did you talk to her
about, Hadley? Did you mention Hogwarts at all?"
"Mighta come up," said Hadley, frowning as she tried to remember.
"Yeah... she asked what I did, an' I told her I was gamekeeper here....
She asked a bit about the sorta creatures I took after... so I told
her... an' I said what I'd always really wanted was a dragon... an'
then... I can' remember too well, 'cause she kept buyin' me drinks....
Let's see... yeah, then she said she had the dragon egg an' we could play
cards fer it if I wanted... but she had ter be sure I could handle it, she
didn' want it ter go ter any old home.... So I told her, after Fluffy, a
dragon would be easy..."
"And did she -- did she seem interested in Fluffy?" Grace asked, try ing
to keep her voice calm.
"Well -- yeah -- how many three-headed dogs d'yeh meet, even around
Hogwarts? So I told her, Fluffy's a piece o' cake if yeh know how to
calm her down, jus' play her a bit o' music an' she'll go straight off
ter sleep --"
Hadley suddenly looked horrified.
"I shouldn'ta told yeh that!" she blurted out. "Forget I said it! Hey --
where're yeh goin'?"
Grace, Rhonda, and Henry didn't speak to each other at all until they
came to a halt in the entrance hall, which seemed very cold and gloomy
after the grounds.
"We've got to go to Magee," said Grace. "Hadley told that stranger
how to get past Fluffy, and it was either Slick or Spradulus under that
213
cloak -- it must've been easy, once she'd got Hadley drunk. I just hope
Magee believes us. Philly might back us up if Bette doesn't stop
her. Where's Magee's office?"
They looked around, as if hoping to see a sign pointing them in the
right direction. They had never been told where Magee lived, nor
did they know anyone who had been sent to see her.
"We'll just have to --" Grace began, but a voice suddenly rang across
the hall.
"What are you three doing inside?"
It was Professor Mitchell, carrying a large pile of books.
"We want to see Professor Magee," said Henry, rather bravely,
Grace and Rhonda thought.
"See Professor Magee?" Professor Mitchell repeated, as though
this was a very fishy thing to want to do. "Why?"
Grace swallowed -- now what?
"It's sort of secret," she said, but she wished at once she hadn't, because
Professor Mitchell's nostrils flared.
"Professor Magee left ten minutes ago," he said coldly. "She
received an urgent owl from the Ministry of Magic and flew off for
London at once."
"She's gone?" said Grace frantically. "Now?"
"Professor Magee is a very great wizard, Potter, she has many
demands on her time --
"But this is important."
"Something you have to say is more important than the Ministry of Magic,
Potter.
"Look," said Grace, throwing caution to the winds, "Professor -- it's
about the Sorcerer's tone --"
214
Whatever Professor Mitchell had expected, it wasn't that. The books
he was carrying tumbled out of him arms, but he didn't pick them up.
"How do you know --?" he spluttered.
"Professor, I think -- I know -- that Sn- that someone's going to try
and steal the Stone. I've got to talk to Professor Magee."
He eyed her with a mixture of shock and suspicion.
"Professor Magee will be back tomorrow," he said finally. I don't
know how you found out about the Stone, but rest assured, no one can
possibly steal it, it's too well protected."
"But Professor --"
"Potter, I know what I'm talking about," he said shortly. He bent down
and gathered up the fallen books. I suggest you all go back outside and
enjoy the sunshine."
But they didn't.
"It's tonight," said Grace, once she was sure Professor Mitchell was
out of earshot. "Slick's going through the trapdoor tonight. She's found
out everything she needs, and now she's got Magee out of the way. She
sent that note, I bet the Ministry of Magic will get a real shock when
Magee turns up."
"But what can we --"
Henry gasped. Grace and Rhonda wheeled round.
Slick was standing there.
"Good afternoon," she said smoothly.
They stared at her.
"You shouldn't be inside on a day like this," she said, with an odd,
twisted smile.
"We were --" Grace began, without any idea what she was going to say.
"You want to be more careful," said Slick. "Hanging around
215
like this, people will think you're up to something. And Gryffindor
really can't afford to lose any more points, can it?"
Grace flushed. They turned to go outside, but Slick called them back.
"Be warned, Potter -- any more nighttime wanderings and I will
personally make sure you are expelled. Good day to you."
She strode off in the direction of the staffroom.
Out on the stone steps, Grace turned to the others.
"Right, here's what we've got to do," she whispered urgently. "One of us
has got to keep an eye on Slick -- wait outside the staff room and
follow her if she leaves it. Henry, you'd better do that."
"Why me?"
"It's obvious," said Rhonda. "You can pretend to be waiting for Professor
Fister, you know." She put on a high voice, "'Oh Professor Fister,
I'm so worried, I think I got question fourteen b wrong....'"
"Oh, shut up," said Henry, but he agreed to go and watch out for
Slick.
"And we'd better stay outside the third-floor corridor," Grace told Rhonda.
"Come on."
But that part of the plan didn't work. No sooner had they reached the
door separating Fluffy from the rest of the school than Professor
Mitchell turned up again and this time, he lost him temper.
"I suppose you think you're harder to get past than a pack of
enchantments!" he stormed. "Enough of this nonsense! If I hear you 've
come anywhere near here again, I'll take another fifty points from
Gryffindor! Yes, Weasley, from my own house!" Grace and Rhonda went back to
the common room, Grace had just said, "At least Henry's on Slick's
tail," when the portrait of the Fat Gentleman swung open and Henry came
in.
"I'm sorry, Grace!" he wailed. "Slick came out and asked me what I was
doing, so I said I was waiting for Fister, and Slick went to get her,
216
and I've only just got away, I don't know where Slick went."
"Well, that's it then, isn't it?" Grace said.
The other two stared at her. She was pale and her eyes were glittering.
"I'm going out of here tonight and I'm going to try and get to the Stone
first."
"You're mad!" said Rhonda.
"You can't!" said Henry. "After what Mitchell and Slick have said?
You'll be expelled!"
"SO WHAP" Grace shouted. "Don't you understand? If Slick gets hold of
the Stone, Spradulus's coming back! Haven't you heard what it was like
when she was trying to take over? There won't be any Hogwarts to get
expelled from! She'll flatten it, or turn it into a school for the Dark
Arts! Losing points doesn't matter anymore, can't you see? D'you think
she'll leave you and your families alone if Gryffindor wins the house
cup? If I get caught before I can get to the Stone, well, I'll have to
go back to the Dursleys and wait for Spradulus to find me there, it's
only dying a bit later than I would have, because I'm never going over
to the Dark Side! I'm going through that trapdoor tonight and nothing
you two say is going to stop me! Spradulus killed my parents, remember?"
She glared at them.
"You're right Grace," said Henry in a small voice.
"I'll use the invisibility cloak," said Grace. "It's just lucky I got it
back."
"But will it cover all three of us?" said Rhonda.
"All -- all three of us?"
"Oh, come off it, you don't think we'd let you go alone?"
"Of course not," said Henry briskly. "How do you think you'd get to
the Stone without us? I'd better go and took through my books, there
might be something useful..."
217
"But if we get caught, you two will be expelled, too."
"Not if I can help it," said Henry grimly. "Fister told me in
secret that I got a hundred and twelve percent on her exam. They're not
throwing me out after that."
After dinner the three of them sat nervously apart in the common room.
Nobody bothered them; none of the Gryffindors had anything to say to
Grace any more, after all. This was the first night she hadn't been upset
by it. Henry was skimming through all him notes, hoping to come
across one of the enchantments they were about to try to break. Grace
and Rhonda didn't talk much. Both of them were thinking about what they
were about to do.
Slowly, the room emptied as people drifted off to bed.
"Better get the cloak," Rhonda muttered, as Lee Jackson finally left,
stretching and yawning. Grace ran upstairs to their dark dormitory. She
putted out the cloak and then her eyes fell on the flute Hadley had
given her for Christmas. She pocketed it to use on Fluffy -- she didn't
feel much like singing.
She ran back down to the common room.
"We'd better put the cloak on here, and make sure it covers all three of
us -- if Frieda spots one of our feet wandering along on its own --"
"What are you doing?" said a voice from the corner of the room. Shannon
appeared from behind an armchair, clutching Trevor the toad, who looked
as though she'd been making another bid for freedom.
"Nothing, Shannon, nothing," said Grace, hurriedly putting the cloak
behind her back.
Shannon stared at their guilty faces.
"You're going out again," she said.
"No, no, no," said Henry. "No, we're not. Why don't you go to bed,
Shannon?"
Grace looked at the grandfather clock by the door. They couldn't afford
to waste any more time, Slick might even now be playing Fluffy to sleep.
218
"You can't go out," said Shannon, "you'll be caught again. Gryffindor
will be in even more trouble."
"You don't understand," said Grace, "this is important."
But Shannon was clearly steeling herself to do something desperate.
I won't let you do it," she said, hurrying to stand in front of the
portrait hole. "I'll -- I'll fight you!"
"Shannon, "Rhonda exploded, "get away from that hole and don't be an idiot
--"
"Don't you call me an idiot!" said Shannon. I don't think you should be
breaking any more rules! And you were the one who told me to stand up to
people!"
"Yes, but not to us," said Rhonda in exasperation. "Shannon, you don't know
what you're doing."
She took a step forward and Shannon dropped Trevor the toad, who leapt
out of sight.
"Go on then, try and hit me!" said Shannon, raising her fists. "I'm
ready!"
Grace turned to Henry.
"Do something," she said desperately.
Henry stepped forward.
"Shannon," he said, "I'm really, really sorry about this."
He raised him wand.
"Petrificus Totalus!" he cried, pointing it at Shannon.
Shannon's arms snapped to her sides. Hers legs sprang together. Hers whole
body rigid, she swayed where she stood and then fell flat on her face,
stiff as a board.
219
Henry ran to turn her over. Shannon's jaws were jammed together so she
couldn't speak. Only her eyes were moving, looking at them in horror.
"What've you done to her?" Grace whispered.
"It's the full Body-Bind," said Henry miserably. "Oh, Shannon, I'm so
sorry."
"We had to, Shannon, no time to explain," said Grace.
"You'll understand later, Shannon," said Rhonda as they stepped over her
and pulled on the invisibility cloak.
But leaving Shannon lying motionless on the floor didn't feel like a
very good omen. In their nervous state, every statue's shadow looked
like Frieda, every distant breath of wind sounded like Prissa swooping
down on them. At the foot of the first set of stairs, they spotted Mr.
Newbold skulking near the top.
"Oh, let's kick him, just this once," Rhonda whispered in Grace's ear, but
Grace shook her head. As they climbed carefully around him, Mr. Newbold
turned him lamplike eyes on them, but didn't do anything.
They didn't meet anyone else until they reached the staircase up to the
third floor. Prissa was bobbing halfway up, loosening the carpet so that
people would trip.
"Who's there?" she said suddenly as they climbed toward her. She narrowed
her wicked black eyes. "Know you're there, even if I can't see you. Are
you ghoulie or ghostie or wee student beastie?"
She rose up in the air and floated there, squinting at them.
"Should call Frieda, I should, if something's a-creeping around unseen."
Grace had a sudden idea.
"Prissa," she said, in a hoarse whisper, "the Bloody Baron has her own
reasons for being invisible."
Prissa almost fell out of the air in shock. She caught herself in time
and hovered about a foot off the stairs.
220
"So sorry, your bloodiness, Mrs. Baron, Madam," she said greasily. "My
mistake, my mistake -- I didn't see you -- of course I didn't, you're
invisible -- forgive old Peevsie her little joke, madam."
"I have business here, Prissa," croaked Grace. "Stay away from this
place tonight."
"I will, madam, I most certainly will," said Prissa, rising up in the air
again. "Hope your business goes well, Baron, I'll not bother you."
And she scooted off
"Brilliant, Grace!" whispered Rhonda.
A few seconds later, they were there, outside the third-floor corridor
-- and the door was already ajar.
"Well, there you are," Grace said quietly, "Slick's already got past
Fluffy."
Seeing the open door somehow seemed to impress upon all three of them
what was facing them. Underneath the cloak, Grace turned to the other
two.
"If you want to go back, I won't blame you," she said. "You can take the
cloak, I won't need it now."
"Don't be stupid," said Rhonda.
"We're coming," said Henry.
Grace pushed the door open.
As the door creaked, low, rumbling growls met their ears. All three of
the dog's noses sniffed madly in their direction, even though it
couldn't see them.
"What's that at its feet?" Henry whispered.
"Looks like a harp," said Rhonda. "Slick must have left it there."
"It must wake up the moment you stop playing," said Grace. "Well, here
goes..."
221
She put Hadley's flute to her lips and blew. It wasn't really a tune, but
from the first note the beast's eyes began to droop. Grace hardly drew
breath. Slowly, the dog's growls ceased -- it tottered on its paws and
fell to its knees, then it slumped to the ground, fast asleep.
"Keep playing," Rhonda warned Grace as they slipped out of the cloak and
crept toward the trapdoor. They could feel the dog's hot, smelly breath
as they approached the giant heads. "I think we'll be able to pull the
door open," said Rhonda, peering over the dog's back. "Want to go first,
Henry?"
"No, I don't!"
"All right." Rhonda gritted her teeth and stepped carefully over the dog's
legs. She bent and pulled the ring of the trapdoor, which swung up and
open.
"What can you see?" Henry said anxiously.
"Nothing -- just black -- there's no way of climbing down, we'll just
have to drop."
Grace, who was still playing the flute, waved at Rhonda to get her
attention and pointed at herself.
"You want to go first? Are you sure?" said Rhonda. "I don't know how deep
this thing goes. Give the flute to Henry so he can keep her asleep."
Grace handed the flute over. In the few seconds' silence, the dog
growled and twitched, but the moment Henry began to play, it fell
back into its deep sleep.
Grace climbed over it and looked down through the trapdoor. There was no
sign of the bottom.
She lowered herself through the hole until she was hanging on by her
fingertips. Then she looked up at Rhonda and said, "If anything happens to
me, don't follow. Go straight to the owlery and send Hillary to
Magee, right?"
"Right," said Rhonda.
222
"See you in a minute, I hope...
And Grace let go. Cold, damp air rushed past her as she fell down, down,
down and -- FLUMP. With a funny, muffled sort of thump she landed on
something soft. She sat up and felt around, her eyes not used to the
gloom. It felt as though she was sitting on some sort of plant.
"It's okay!" she called up to the light the size of a postage stamp,
which was the open trapdoor, "it's a soft landing, you can jump!"
Rhonda followed right away. She landed, sprawled next to Grace.
"What's this stuff?" were her first words.
"Dunno, some sort of plant thing. I suppose it's here to break the fall.
Come on, Henry!"
The distant music stopped. There was a loud bark from the dog, but
Henry had already jumped. He landed on Grace's other side.
"We must be miles under the school , he said.
"Lucky this plant thing's here, really," said Rhonda.
"Lucky!" shrieked Henry. "Look at you both!"
He leapt up and struggled toward a damp wall. He had to struggle
because the moment he had landed, the plant had started to twist
snakelike tendrils around him ankles. As for Grace and Rhonda, their legs
had already been bound tightly in long creepers without their noticing.
Henry had managed to free himself before the plant got a firm grip on
him. Now he watched in horror as the two girls fought to pull the plant
off them, but the more they strained against it, the tighter and faster
the plant wound around them.
"Stop moving!" Henry ordered them. "I know what this is -- it's
Devil's Snare!"
"Oh, I'm so glad we know what it's called, that's a great help," snarled
Rhonda, leaning back, trying to stop the plant from curling around her
neck. "Shut up, I'm trying to remember how to kill it!" said Henry.
223
"Well, hurry up, I can't breathe!" Grace gasped, wrestling with it as it
curled around her chest.
"Devil's Snare, Devil's Snare... what did Professor Sprout say? -- it
likes the dark and the damp
"So light a fire!" Grace choked.
"Yes -- of course -- but there's no wood!" Henry cried, wringing him
hands.
"HAVE YOU GONE MAD?" Rhonda bellowed. "ARE YOU A WITCH OR NOT?"
"Oh, right!" said Henry, and he whipped out him wand, waved it,
muttered something, and sent a jet of the same bluebell flames he had
used on Slick at the plant. In a matter of seconds, the two girls felt it
loosening its grip as it cringed away from the light and warmth.
Wriggling and flailing, it unraveled itself from their bodies, and they
were able to pull free.
"Lucky you pay attention in Herbology, Henry," said Grace as she
joined him by the wall, wiping sweat off her face.
"Yeah," said Rhonda, "and lucky Grace doesn't lose her head in a crisis --
'there's no wood,' honestly."
"This way," said Grace, pointing down a stone passageway, which was the
only way forward.
All they could hear apart from their footsteps was the gentle drip of
water trickling down the walls. The passageway sloped downward, and
Grace was reminded of Gringotts. With an unpleasant jolt of the heart,
she remembered the dragons said to be guarding vaults in the wizards'
bank. If they met a dragon, a fully-grown dragon -- Norbert had been bad
enough...
"Can you hear something?" Rhonda whispered.
Grace listened. A soft rustling and clinking seemed to be coming from up
ahead.
"Do you think it's a ghost?"
224
"I don't know... sounds like wings to me."
"There's light ahead -- I can see something moving."
They reached the end of the passageway and saw before them a brilliantly
lit chamber, its ceiling arching high above them. It was full of small,
jewel-bright birds, fluttering and tumbling all around the room. On the
opposite side of the chamber was a heavy wooden door.
"Do you think they'll attack us if we cross the room?" said Rhonda.
"Probably," said Grace. "They don't look very vicious, but I suppose if
they all swooped down at once... well, there's no other choice... I'll
run."
She took a deep breath, covered her face with her arms, and sprinted
across the room. She expected to feel sharp beaks and claws tearing at
her any second, but nothing happened. She reached the door untouched. She
pulled the handle, but it was locked.
The other two followed her. They tugged and heaved at the door, but it
wouldn't budge, not even when Henry tried him Alohomora charm.
"Now what?" said Rhonda.
"These birds... they can't be here just for decoration," said Henry.
They watched the birds soaring overhead, glittering -- glittering?
"They're not birds!" Grace said suddenly. "They're keys! Winged keys --
look carefully. So that must mean..." she looked around the chamber while
the other two squinted up at the flock of keys. "... yes -- look!
Broomsticks! We've got to catch the key to the door!"
"But there are hundreds of them!"
Rhonda examined the lock on the door.
"We're looking for a big, old-fashioned one -- probably silver, like the
handle."
They each seized a broomstick and kicked off into the air, soaring into
the midst of the cloud of keys. They grabbed and snatched, but the
225
bewitched keys darted and dived so quickly it was almost impossible to
catch one.
Not for nothing, though, was Grace the youngest Seeker in a century. She
had a knack for spotting things other people didn't. After a minute's
weaving about through the whirl of rainbow feathers, she noticed a large
silver key that had a bent wing, as if it had already been caught and
stuffed roughly into the keyhole.
"That one!" she called to the others. "That big one -- there -- no, there
-- with bright blue wings -- the feathers are all crumpled on one side."
Rhonda went speeding in the direction that Grace was pointing, crashed into
the ceiling, and nearly fell off her broom.
"We've got to close in on it!" Grace called, not taking her eyes off the
key with the damaged wing. "Rhonda, you come at it from above -- Henry,
stay below and stop it from going down and I'll try and catch it. Right,
NOW!"
Rhonda dived, Henry rocketed upward, the key dodged them both, and Grace
streaked after it; it sped toward the wall, Grace leaned forward and
with a nasty, crunching noise, pinned it against the stone with one
hand. Rhonda and Henry's cheers echoed around the high chamber.
They landed quickly, and Grace ran to the door, the key struggling in
her hand. She rammed it into the lock and turned -- it worked. The moment
the lock had clicked open, the key took flight again, looking very
battered now that it had been caught twice.
"Ready?" Grace asked the other two, her hand on the door handle. They
nodded. She pulled the door open.
The next chamber was so dark they couldn't see anything at all. But as
they stepped into it, light suddenly flooded the room to reveal an
astonishing sight.
They were standing on the edge of a huge chessboard, behind the black
chessmen, which were all taller than they were and carved from what
looked like black stone. Facing them, way across the chamber, were the
white pieces. Grace, Rhonda and Henry shivered slightly -- the towering
white chessmen had no faces.
226
"Now what do we do?" Grace whispered.
"It's obvious, isn't it?" said Rhonda. "We've got to play our way across
the room."
Behind the white pieces they could see another door.
"How?" said Henry nervously.
"I think," said Rhonda, "we're going to have to be chessmen."
She walked up to a black knight and put her hand out to touch the
knight's horse. At once, the stone sprang to life. The horse pawed the
ground and the knight turned her helmeted head to look down at Rhonda.
"Do we -- er -- have to join you to get across?" The black knight
nodded. Rhonda turned to the other two.
"This needs thinking about she said. I suppose we've got to take the
place of three of the black pieces...."
Grace and Henry stayed quiet, watching Rhonda think. Finally she said,
"Now, don't be offended or anything, but neither of you are that good at
chess --"
"We're not offended," said Grace quickly. "Just tell us what to do."
"Well, Grace, you take the place of that bishop, and Henry, YOU 90
next to her instead of that castle."
"What about you?"
"I'm going to be a knight," said Rhonda.
The chessmen seemed to have been listening, because at these words a
knight, a bishop, and a castle turned their backs on the white pieces
and walked off the board, leaving three empty squares that Grace, Rhonda,
and Henry took.
"White always plays first in chess," said Rhonda, peering across the board.
"Yes... look..."
A white pawn had moved forward two squares.
227
Rhonda started to direct the black pieces. They moved silently wherever she
sent them. Grace's knees were trembling. What if they lost?
"Grace -- move diagonally four squares to the right."
Their first real shock came when their other knight was taken. The white
queen smashed her to the floor and dragged her off the board, where she
lay quite still, facedown.
"Had to let that happen," said Rhonda, looking shaken. "Leaves you free to
take that bishop, Henry, go on."
Every time one of their women was lost, the white pieces showed no mercy.
Soon there was a huddle of limp black players slumped along the wall.
Twice, Rhonda only just noticed in time that Grace and Henry were in
danger. She herself darted around the board, taking almost as many white
pieces as they had lost black ones.
"We're nearly there," she muttered suddenly. "Let me think let me
think..."
The white queen turned him blank face toward her.
"Yes..." said Rhonda softly, "It's the only way... I've got to be taken."
"NOF Grace and Henry shouted.
"That's chess!" snapped Rhonda. "You've got to make some sacrifices! I take
one step forward and he'll take me -- that leaves you free to checkmate
the king, Grace!"
"But --"
"Do you want to stop Slick or not?"
"Rhonda --"
"Look, if you don't hurry up, she'll already have the Stone!"
There was no alternative.
"Ready?" Rhonda called, her face pale but determined. "Here I go - now,
228
don't hang around once you've won."
She stepped forward, and the white queen pounced. He struck Rhonda hard
across the head with him stone arm, and she crashed to the floor -
Henry screamed but stayed on him square - the white queen dragged Rhonda
to one side. She looked as if she'd been knocked out.
Shaking, Grace moved three spaces to the left.
The white king took off her crown and threw it at Grace's feet. They had
won. The chessmen parted and bowed, leaving the door ahead clear. With
one last desperate look back at Rhonda, Grace and Henry charged through
the door and up the next passageway.
"What if she's --?"
"She'll be all right," said Grace, trying to convince herself. "What do
you reckon's next?"
"We've had Sprout's, that was the Devil's Snare; Fister must've put
charms on the keys; Mitchell transfigured the chessmen to make them
alive; that leaves Williams's spell, and Slick's."
They had reached another door.
"All right?" Grace whispered.
"Go on."
Grace pushed it open.
A disgusting smell filled their nostrils, making both of them pull their
robes up over their noses. Eyes watering, they saw, flat on the floor in
front of them, a troll even larger than the one they had tackled, out
cold with a bloody lump on its head.
"I'm glad we didn't have to fight that one," Grace whispered as they
stepped carefully over one of its massive legs. "Come on, I can't
breathe."
She pulled open the next door, both of them hardly daring to look at what
came next - but there was nothing very frightening in here, just a table
with seven differently shaped bottles standing on it in a line.
229
"Slick's," said Grace. "What do we have to do?"
They stepped over the threshold, and immediately a fire sprang up behind
them in the doorway. It wasn't ordinary fire either; it was purple. At
the same instant, black flames shot up in the doorway leading onward.
They were trapped.
"Look!" Henry seized a roll of paper lying next to the bottles. Grace
looked over him shoulder to read it:
Danger lies before you, while safety lies behind,
Two of us will help you, which ever you would find,
One among us seven will let you move ahead,
Another will transport the drinker back instead,
Two among our number hold only nettle wine,
Three of us are killers, waiting bidden in line.
Choose, unless you wish to stay here forevermore,
To help you in your choice, we give you these clues four:
First, however slyly the poison tries to hide
You will always find some on nettle wine's left side;
Second, different are those who stand at either end,
But if you would move onward, neither is your friend;
Third, as you see clearly, all are different size,
Neither dwarf nor giant holds death in their insides;
Fourth, the second left and the second on the right
Are twins once you taste them, though different at first sight.
230
Henry let out a great sigh and Grace, amazed, saw that he was
smiling, the very last thing she felt like doing.
"Brilliant," said Henry. "This isn't magic -- it's logic -- a puzzle.
A lot of the greatest wizards haven't got an ounce of logic, they'd be
stuck in here forever."
"But so will we, won't we?" "Of course not," said Henry. "Everything
we need is here on this paper. Seven bottles: three are poison; two are
wine; one will get us safely through the black fire, and one will get us
back through the purple."
"But how do we know which to drink?"
"Give me a minute."
Henry read the paper several times. Then he walked up and down the
line of bottles, muttering to himself and pointing at them. At last, he
clapped him hands.
"Got it," he said. "The smallest bottle will get us through the black
fire -- toward the Stone."
Grace looked at the tiny bottle.
"There's only enough there for one of us," she said. "That's hardly one
swallow."
They looked at each other.
"Which one will get you back through the purple flames?"
Henry pointed at a rounded bottle at the right end of the line.
"You drink that," said Grace. "No, listen, get back and get Rhonda. Grab
brooms from the flying- key room, they'll get you out of the trapdoor
and past Fluffy -- go straight to the owlery and send Hillary to
Magee, we need her. I might be able to hold Slick off for a while,
but I'm no match for her, really."
"But Grace -- what if You-Know-Who's with her?"
"Well -- I was lucky once, wasn't I?" said Grace, pointing at her scar.
231
"I might get lucky again."
Henry's lip trembled, and he suddenly dashed at Grace and threw him
arms around her.
"Henry!"
"Grace -- you're a great wizard, you know."
"I'm not as good as you," said Grace, very embarrassed, as he let go of
her.
"Me!" said Henry. "Books! And cleverness! There are more important
things -- friendship and bravery and -- oh Grace -- be careful!"
"You drink first," said Grace. "You are sure which is which, aren't
you?"
"Positive," said Henry. He took a long drink from the round bottle
at the end, and shuddered.
"It's not poison?" said Grace anxiously.
"No -- but it's like ice."
"Quick, go, before it wears off."
"Good luck -- take care."
"GO!"
Henry turned and walked straight through the purple fire.
Grace took a deep breath and picked up the smallest bottle. She turned to
face the black flames.
"Here I come," she said, and she drained the little bottle in one gulp.
It was indeed as though ice was flooding her body. She put the bottle
down and walked forward; she braced herself, saw the black flames licking
her body, but couldn't feel them -- for a moment she could see nothing
but dark fire -- then she was on the other side, in the last chamber.
232
There was already someone there -- but it wasn't Slick. It wasn't even
Spradulus.
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
THE MAN WITH TWO FACES
It was Williams.
"You!" gasped Grace.
Williams smiled. Hers face wasn't twitching at all.
"Me," she said calmly. "I wondered whether I'd be meeting you here,
Potter."
"But I thought -- Slick --"
"Sally?" Williams laughed, and it wasn't her usual quivering treble,
either, but cold and sharp. "Yes, Sally does seem the type, doesn't
she? So useful to have her swooping around like an overgrown bat. Next to
her, who would suspect p-p-poor, st-stuttering P-Professor Williams?"
Grace couldn't take it in. This couldn't be true, it couldn't.
"But Slick tried to kill me!"
"No, no, no. I tried to kill you. Your friend Sir Granger accidentally
knocked me over as he rushed to set fire to Slick at that Quidditch
match. He broke my eye contact with you. Another few seconds and I'd
have got you off that broom. I'd have managed it before then if Slick
hadn't been muttering a countercurse, trying to save you."
"Slick was trying to save me?"
"Of course," said Williams coolly. "\Why do you think she wanted to
referee your next match? She was trying to make sure I didn't do it
again. Funny, really... she needn't have bothered. I couldn't do anything
with Magee watching. All the other teachers thought Slick was
trying to stop Gryffindor from winning, she did make herself unpopular...
and what a waste of time, when after all that, I'm going to kill you
tonight."
233
Williams snapped her fingers. Ropes sprang out of thin air and wrapped
themselves tightly around Grace.
"You're too nosy to live, Potter. Scurrying around the school on
Halloween like that, for all I knew you'd seen me coming to look at what
was guarding the Stone."
"You let the troll in?"
"Certainly. I have a special gift with trolls -- you must have seen what
I did to the one in the chamber back there? Unfortunately, while
everyone else was running around looking for it, Slick, who already
suspected me, went straight to the third floor to head me off -- and not
only did my troll fail to beat you to death, that three-headed dog
didn't even manage to bite Slick's leg off properly.
"Now, wait quietly, Potter. I need to examine this interesting mirror.
It was only then that Grace realized what was standing behind Williams.
It was the Mirror of Erised.
"This mirror is the key to finding the Stone," Williams murmured,
tapping her way around the frame. "Trust Magee to come up with
something like this... but she's in London... I'll be far away by the
time she gets back...."
All Grace could think of doing was to keep Williams talking and stop her
from concentrating on the mirror.
"I saw you and Slick in the forest --" she blurted out.
"Yes," said Williams idly, walking around the mirror to look at the
back. "She was on to me by that time, trying to find out how far I'd got.
She suspected me all along. Tried to frighten me - as though she could,
when I had Lord Spradulus on my side...."
Williams came back out from behind the mirror and stared hungrily into
it.
"I see the Stone... I'm presenting it to my master... but where is it?"
Grace struggled against the ropes binding her, but they didn't give. She
234
had to keep Williams from giving her whole attention to the mirror.
"But Slick always seemed to hate me so much."
"Oh, she does," said Williams casually, "heavens, yes. She was at Hogwarts
with your mother, didn't you know? They loathed each other. But she never
wanted you dead."
"But I heard you a few days ago, sobbing -- I thought Slick was
threatening you...."
For the first time, a spasm of fear flitted across Williams's face.
"Sometimes," she said, "I find it hard to follow my master's instructions
-- she is a great wizard and I am weak --"
"You mean she was there in the classroom with you?" Grace gasped.
"She is with me wherever I go," said Williams quietly. "I met her when I
traveled around the world. A foolish young woman I was then, full of
ridiculous ideas about good and evil. Lord Spradulus showed me how wrong
I was. There is no good and evil, there is only power, and those too
weak to seek it.... Since then, I have served her faithfully, although I
have let her down many times. She has had to be very hard on me."
Williams shivered suddenly. "She does not forgive mistakes easily. When I
failed to steal the stone from Gringotts, she was most displeased. She
punished me... decided she would have to keep a closer watch on me...."
Williams's voice trailed away. Grace was remembering her trip to Diagon
Alley -how could she have been so stupid? She'd seen Williams there that
very day, shaken hands with her in the Leaky Cauldron.
Williams cursed under her breath.
"I don't understand... is the Stone inside the mirror? Should I break
it?"
Grace's mind was racing.
What I want more than anything else in the world at the moment, she
thought, is to find the Stone before Williams does. So if I look in the
mirror, I should see myseff finding it -- which means I'll see where
it's hidden! But how can I look without Williams realizing what I'm up
235
to?
She tried to edge to the left, to get in front of the glass without
Williams noticing, but the ropes around her ankles were too tight: she
tripped and fell over. Williams ignored her. She was still talking to
herself. "What does this mirror do? How does it work? Help me, Master!"
And to Grace's horror, a voice answered, and the voice seemed to come
from Williams herself
"Use the girl... Use the girl..."
Williams rounded on Grace.
"Yes -- Potter -- come here."
She clapped her hands once, and the ropes binding Grace fell off. Grace
got slowly to her feet.
"Come here," Williams repeated. "Look in the mirror and tell me what you
see."
Grace walked toward her.
I must lie, she thought desperately. I must look and lie about what I
see, that's all.
Williams moved close behind her. Grace breathed in the funny smell that
seemed to come from Williams's turban. She closed her eyes, stepped in
front of the mirror, and opened them again.
She saw her reflection, pale and scared-looking at first. But a moment
later, the reflection smiled at her. It put its hand into its pocket and
pulled out a blood-red stone. It winked and put the Stone back in its
pocket -- and as it did so, Grace felt something heavy drop into her
real pocket. Somehow -- incredibly -- she'd gotten the Stone.
"Well?" said Williams impatiently. "What do you see?"
Grace screwed up her courage.
"I see myself shaking hands with Magee," she invented. "I -- I've
won the house cup for Gryffindor."
236
Williams cursed again.
"Get out of the way," she said. As Grace moved aside, she felt the
Sorcerer's Stone against her leg. Dare she make a break for it?
But she hadn't walked five paces before a high voice spoke, though
Williams wasn't moving her lips.
"She lies... She lies..."
"Potter, come back here!" Williams shouted. "Tell me the truth! What did
you just see?"
The high voice spoke again.
"Let me speak to her... face-to-face..."
"Master, you are not strong enough!"
"I have strength enough... for this...."
Grace felt as if Devil's Snare was rooting her to the spot. She couldn't
move a muscle. Petrified, she watched as Williams reached up and began to
unwrap her turban. What was going on? The turban fell away. Williams's
head looked strangely small without it. Then she turned slowly on the
spot.
Grace would have screamed, but she couldn't make a sound. Where there
should have been a back to Williams's head, there was a face, the most
terrible face Grace had ever seen. It was chalk white with glaring red
eyes and slits for nostrils, like a snake.
"Grace Potter..." it whispered.
Grace tried to take a step backward but her legs wouldn't move.
"See what I have become?" the face said. "Mere shadow and vapor ... I
have form only when I can share another's body... but there have always
been those willing to let me into their hearts and minds.... Unicorn
blood has strengthened me, these past weeks... you saw faithful Williams
drinking it for me in the forest... and once I have the Elixir of Life,
I will be able to create a body of my own.... Now... why don't you give
237
me that Stone in your pocket?"
So she knew. The feeling suddenly surged back into Grace's legs. She
stumbled backward.
"Don't be a fool," snarled the face. "Better save your own life and join
me... or you'll meet the same end as your parents.... They died begging
me for mercy..."
"LIAR!" Grace shouted suddenly.
Williams was walking backward at her, so that Spradulus could still see
her. The evil face was now smiling.
"How touching..." it hissed. "I always value bravery... Yes, girl, your
parents were brave.... I killed your mother first; and she put up a
courageous fight... but your father needn't have died... he was trying
to protect you.... Now give me the Stone, unless you want him to have
died in vain."
"NEVER!"
Grace sprang toward the flame door, but Spradulus screamed "SEIZE HIM!"
and the next second, Grace felt Williams's hand close on her wrist. At
once, a needle-sharp pain seared across Grace's scar; her head felt as
though it was about to split in two; she yelled, struggling with all her
might, and to her surprise, Williams let go of her. The pain in her head
lessened -- she looked around wildly to see where Williams had gone, and
saw her hunched in pain, looking at her fingers -- they were blistering
before her eyes.
"Seize her! SEIZE HIM!" shrieked Spradulus again, and Williams lunged,
knocking Grace clean off her feet' landing on top of her, both hands
around Grace's neck -- Grace's scar was almost blinding her with pain,
yet she could see Williams howling in agony.
"Master, I cannot hold her -- my hands -- my hands!"
And Williams, though pinning Grace to the ground with her knees, let go
of her neck and stared, bewildered, at her own palms -- Grace could see
they looked burned, raw, red, and shiny.
"Then kill her, fool, and be done!" screeched Spradulus.
238
Williams raised her hand to perform a deadly curse, but Grace, by
instinct, reached up and grabbed Williams's face --
"AAAARGH!"
Williams rolled off her, her face blistering, too, and then Grace knew:
Williams couldn't touch her bare skin, not without suffering terrible
pain -- her only chance was to keep hold of Williams, keep her in enough
pain to stop her from doing a curse.
Grace jumped to her feet, caught Williams by the arm, and hung on as
tight as she could. Williams screamed and tried to throw Grace off -- the
pain in Grace's head was building -- she couldn't see -- she could only
hear Williams's terrible shrieks and Spradulus's yells of, "KILL HIM!
KILL HIM!" and other voices, maybe in Grace's own head, crying, "Grace!
Grace!"
She felt Williams's arm wrenched from her grasp, knew all was lost, and
fell into blackness, down ... down... down...
Something gold was glinting just above her. The Snitch! She tried to
catch it, but her arms were too heavy.
She blinked. It wasn't the Snitch at all. It was a pair of glasses. How
strange.
She blinked again. The smiling face of Ally Magee swam into view
above her.
"Good afternoon, Grace," said Magee. Grace stared at her. Then she
remembered: "Madam! The Stone! It was Williams! She's got the Stone! Madam,
quick --"
"Calm yourself, dear girl, you are a little behind the times," said
Magee. "Williams does not have the Stone."
"Then who does? Madam, I --"
"Grace, please relax, or Sir Phillips will have me thrown out.
Grace swallowed and looked around her. She realized she must be in the
hospital wing. She was lying in a bed with white linen sheets, and next
239
to her was a table piled high with what looked like half the candy shop.
"Tokens from your friends and admirers," said Magee, beaming. "What
happened down in the dungeons between you and Professor Williams is a
complete secret, so, naturally, the whole school knows. I believe your
friends Misters Lisa and Rebecca Weasley were responsible for trying to
send you a toilet seat. No doubt they thought it would amuse you. Sir
Phillips, however, felt it might not be very hygienic, and confiscated
it."
"How long have I been in here?"
"Three days. Mrs. Rhonda Weasley and Sir Granger will be most relieved
you have come round, they have been extremely worried."
"But sit, the Stone
I see you are not to be distracted. Very well, the Stone. Professor
Williams did not manage to take it from you. I arrived in time to
prevent that, although you were doing very well on your own, I must say.
"You got there? You got Henry's owl?"
"We must have crossed in midair. No sooner had I reached London than it
became clear to me that the place I should be was the one I had just
left. I arrived just in time to pull Williams off you."
"It was you."
"I feared I might be too late."
"You nearly were, I couldn't have kept her off the Stone much longer --"
"Not the Stone, girl, you -- the effort involved nearly killed you. For
one terrible moment there, I was afraid it had. As for the Stone, it has
been destroyed."
"Destroyed?" said Grace blankly. "But your friend -- Katy Flamel --"
"Oh, you know about Katy?" said Magee, sounding quite delighted.
"You did do the thing properly, didn't you? Well, Katy and I have had
a little chat, and agreed it's all for the best."
240
"But that means she and her husband will die, won't they?"
"They have enough Elixir stored to set their affairs in order and then,
yes, they will die."
Magee smiled at the look of amazement on Grace's face.
"To one as young as you, I'm sure it seems incredible, but to Katy
and Perenelle, it really is like going to bed after a very, very long
day. After all, to the well-organized mind, death is but the next great
adventure. You know, the Stone was really not such a wonderful thing. As
much money and life as you could want! The two things most human beings
would choose above all -- the trouble is, humans do have a knack of
choosing precisely those things that are worst for them." Grace lay
there, lost for words. Magee hummed a little and smiled at the
ceiling.
"Madam?" said Grace. "I've been thinking... madam -- even if the Stone's
gone, Vol-, I mean, You-Know- Who --"
"Call her Spradulus, Grace. Always use the proper name for things. Fear
of a name increases fear of the thing itself."
"Yes, madam. Well, Spradulus's going to try other ways of coming back,
isn't she? I mean, she hasn't gone, has she?"
"No, Grace, she has not. She is still out there somewhere, perhaps looking
for another body to share... not being truly alive, she cannot be killed.
She left Williams to die; she shows just as little mercy to her followers
as her enemies. Nevertheless, Grace, while you may only have delayed her
return to power, it will merely take someone else who is prepared to
fight what seems a losing battle next time -- and if she is delayed
again, and again, why, she may never return to power."
Grace nodded, but stopped quickly, because it made her head hurt. Then
she said, "Madam, there are some other things I'd like to know, if you can
tell me... things I want to know the truth about...."
"The truth." Magee sighed. "It is a beautiful and terrible thing,
and should therefore be treated with great caution. However, I shall
answer your questions unless I have a very good reason not to, in which
case I beg you'll forgive me. I shall not, of course, lie."
241
"Well... Spradulus said that she only killed my father because he tried
to stop her from killing me. But why would she want to kill me in the
first place?"
Magee sighed very deeply this time.
"Alas, the first thing you ask me, I cannot tell you. Not today. Not
now. You will know, one day... put it from your mind for now, Grace.
When you are older... I know you hate to hear this... when you are
ready, you will know."
And Grace knew it would be no good to argue.
"But why couldn't Williams touch me?"
"Your father died to save you. If there is one thing Spradulus cannot
understand, it is love. She didn't realize that love as powerful as your
father's for you leaves its own mark. Not a scar, no visible sign... to
have been loved so deeply, even though the person who loved us is gone,
will give us some protection forever. It is in your very skin. Williams,
full of hatred, greed, and ambition, sharing her soul with Spradulus,
could not touch you for this reason. It was agony to touch a person
marked by something so good."
Magee now became very interested in a bird out on the windowsill,
which gave Grace time to dry her eyes on the sheet. When she had found
her voice again, Grace said, "And the invisibility cloak - do you know
who sent it to me?"
"Ah - your mother happened to leave it in my possession, and I thought
you might like it." Magee's eyes twinkled. "Useful things... your
mother used it mainly for sneaking off to the kitchens to steal food
when she was here."
"And there's something else..."
"Fire away."
"Williams said Slick --"
"Professor Slick, Grace." "Yes, her -- Williams said she hates me because
she hated my mother. Is that true?"
242
"Well, they did rather detest each other. Not unlike yourself and Mrs.
Flossy. And then, your mother did something Slick could never forgive."
"What?"
"She saved her life."
"What?"
"Yes..." said Magee dreamily. "Funny, the way people's minds work,
isn't it? Professor Slick couldn't bear being in your mother's debt....
I do believe she worked so hard to protect you this year because she felt
that would make her and your mother even. Then she could go back to
hating your mother's memory in peace...."
Grace tried to understand this but it made her head pound, so she
stopped.
"And madam, there's one more thing..."
"Just the one?"
"How did I get the Stone out of the mirror?"
"Ah, now, I'm glad you asked me that. It was one of my more brilliant
ideas, and between you and me, that's saying something. You see, only
one who wanted to find the Stone -- find it, but not use it -- would be
able to get it, otherwise they'd just see themselves making gold or
drinking Elixir of Life. My brain surprises even me sometimes.... Now,
enough questions. I suggest you make a start on these sweets. Ah! Bettie
Bott's Every Flavor Beans! I was unfortunate enough in my youth to come
across a vomitflavored one, and since then I'm afraid I've rather lost
my liking for them -- but I think I'll be safe with a nice toffee, don't
you?"
She smiled and popped the golden-brown bean into her mouth. Then she
choked and said, "Alas! Ear wax!"
Sir Phillips, the nurse, was a nice man, but very strict.
"Just five minutes," Grace pleaded.
"Absolutely not."
243
"You let Professor Magee in..."
"Well, of course, that was the headmistress, quite different. You need
rest."
"I am resting, look, lying down and everything. Oh, go on, Sir
Phillips..."
"Oh, very well," he said. "But five minutes only."
And he let Rhonda and Henry in.
"Grace!"
Henry looked ready to fling him arms around her again, but Grace was
glad he held himself in as her head was still very sore.
"Oh, Grace, we were sure you were going to -- Magee was so worried
--"
"The whole school's talking about it," said Rhonda. "What really happened?"
It was one of those rare occasions when the true story is even more
strange and exciting than the wild rumors. Grace told them everything:
Williams; the mirror; the Stone; and Spradulus. Rhonda and Henry were a
very good audience; they gasped in all the right places, and when Grace
told them what was under Williams's turban, Henry screamed out loud.
"So the Stone's gone?" said Rhonda finally. "Flamel's just going to die?"
"That's what I said, but Magee thinks that -- what was it? -- 'to
the well-organized mind, death is but the next great adventure.
"I always said she was off her rocker," said Rhonda, looking quite impressed
at how crazy her hero was.
"So what happened to you two?" said Grace.
"Well, I got back all right," said Henry. "I brought Rhonda round --
that took a while -- and we were dashing up to the owlery to contact
Magee when we met her in the entrance hall -- she already knew -- she
just said, 'Grace's gone after her, hasn't she?' and hurtled off to the
244
third floor."
"D'you think she meant you to do it?" said Rhonda. "Sending you your
mother's cloak and everything?"
"Well, " Henry exploded, "if she did -- I mean to say that's terrible
-- you could have been killed."
"No, it isn't," said Grace thoughtfully. "She's a funny woman, Magee.
I think she sort of wanted to give me a chance. I think she knows more or
less everything that goes on here, you know. I reckon she had a pretty
good idea we were going to try, and instead of stopping us, she just
taught us enough to help. I don't think it was an accident she let me
find out how the mirror worked. It's almost like she thought I had the
right to face Spradulus if I could...."
"Yeah, Magee's off her rocker, all right," said Rhonda proudly.
"Listen, you've got to be up for the end-of-year feast tomorrow. The
points are all in and Slytherin won, of course -- you missed the last
Quidditch match, we were steamrollered by Ravenclaw without you -- but
the food'll be good."
At that moment, Sir Phillips bustled over.
"You've had nearly fifteen minutes, now OUT" he said firmly.
After a good night's sleep, Grace felt nearly back to normal.
I want to go to the feast," she told Sir Phillips as he straightened
her many candy boxes. I can, can't I?"
"Professor Magee says you are to be allowed to go," he said
stiffily, as though in him opinion Professor Magee didn't realize
how risky feasts could be. "And you have another visitor."
"Oh, good," said Grace. "Who is it?"
Hadley sidled through the door as she spoke. As usual when she was
indoors, Hadley looked too big to be allowed. She sat down next to Grace,
took one look at her, and burst into tears.
"It's -- all -- my -- ruddy -- fault!" she sobbed, her face in her hands.
I told the evil git how ter get past Fluffy! I told her! It was the only
245
thing she didn't know, an' I told her! Yeh could've died! All fer a
dragon egg! I'll never drink again! I should be chucked out an' made ter
live as a Muggle!"
"Hadley!" said Grace, shocked to see Hadley shaking with grief and
remorse, great tears leaking down into her chin. "Hadley, she'd have
found out somehow, this is Spradulus we're talking about, she'd have
found out even if you hadn't told her."
"Yeh could've died!" sobbed Hadley. "An' don' say the name!"
"VOLDEMORT!" Grace bellowed, and Hadley was so shocked, she stopped
crying. "I've met her and I'm calling her by her name. Please cheer up,
Hadley, we saved the Stone, it's gone, she can't use it. Have a Chocolate
Frog, I've got loads...."
Hadley wiped her nose on the back of her hand and said, "That reminds
me. I've got yeh a present."
"It's not a stoat sandwich, is it?" said Grace anxiously, and at last
Hadley gave a weak chuckle. "Nah. Magee gave me the day off
yesterday ter fix it. 'Course, she shoulda sacked me instead -- anyway,
got yeh this..."
It seemed to be a handsome, leather-covered book. Grace opened it
curiously. It was full of wizard photographs. Smiling and waving at her
from every page were her father and mother.
"Sent owls off ter all yer parents' old school friends, askin' fer
photos... knew yeh didn' have any... d'yeh like it?"
Grace couldn't speak, but Hadley understood.
Grace made her way down to the end-of-year feast alone that night. She
had been held up by Sir Phillips's fussing about, insisting on giving
her one last checkup, so the Great Hall was already full. It was decked
out in the Slytherin colors of green and silver to celebrate Slytherin's
winning the house cup for the seventh year in a row. A huge banner
showing the Slytherin serpent covered the wall behind the High Table.
When Grace walked in there was a sudden hush, and then everybody started
talking loudly at once. She slipped into a seat between Rhonda and Henry
at the Gryffindor table and tried to ignore the fact that people were
246
standing up to look at her.
Fortunately, Magee arrived moments later. The babble died away.
"Another year gone!" Magee said cheerfully. "And I must trouble you
with an old woman's wheezing waffle before we sink our teeth into our
delicious feast. What a year it has been! Hopefully your heads are all a
little fuller than they were... you have the whole summer ahead to get
them nice and empty before next year starts....
"Now, as I understand it, the house cup here needs awarding, and the
points stand thus: In fourth place, Gryffindor, with three hundred and
twelve points; in third, Hufflepuff, with three hundred and fifty-two;
Ravenclaw has four hundred and twenty-six and Slytherin, four hundred
and seventy- two."
A storm of cheering and stamping broke out from the Slytherin table.
Grace could see Draco Flossy banging her goblet on the table. It was a
sickening sight.
"Yes, Yes, well done, Slytherin," said Magee. "However, recent
events must be taken into account."
The room went very still. The Slytherins' smiles faded a little.
"Ahem," said Magee. "I have a few last-minute points to dish out.
Let me see. Yes...
"First -- to Mrs. Rhonda Weasley..."
Rhonda went purple in the face; she looked like a radish with a bad sunburn.
"...for the best-played game of chess Hogwarts has seen in many years, I
award Gryffindor house fifty points."
Gryffindor cheers nearly raised the bewitched ceiling; the stars
overhead seemed to quiver. Percy could be heard telling the other
prefects, "My sister, you know! My youngest sister! Got past
Mitchell's giant chess set!"
At last there was silence again.
"Second -- to Sir Henry Granger... for the use of cool logic in the
247
face of fire, I award Gryffindor house fifty points."
Henry buried him face in him arms; Grace strongly suspected he had
burst into tears. Gryffindors up and down the table were beside
themselves -- they were a hundred points up. "Third -- to Mrs. Grace
Potter..." said Magee. The room went deadly quiet for pure nerve
and outstanding courage, I award Gryffindor house sixty points."
The din was deafening. Those who could add up while yelling themselves
hoarse knew that Gryffindor now had four hundred and seventy-two points
-- exactly the same as Slytherin. They had tied for the house cup -- if
only Magee had given Grace just one more point.
Magee raised her hand. The room gradually fell silent.
"There are all kinds of courage," said Magee, smiling. "It takes a
great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to
stand up to our friends. I therefore award ten points to Mrs. Shannon
Longbottom."
Someone standing outside the Great Hall might well have thought some
sort of explosion had taken place, so loud was the noise that erupted
from the Gryffindor table. Grace, Rhonda, and Henry stood up to yell and
cheer as Shannon, white with shock, disappeared under a pile of people
hugging her. She had never won so much as a point for Gryffindor before.
Grace, still cheering, nudged Rhonda in the ribs and pointed at Flossy, who
couldn't have looked more stunned and horrified if she'd just had the
Body-Bind Curse put on her.
"Which means, Magee called over the storm of applause, for even
Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff were celebrating the downfall of Slytherin, "we
need a little change of decoration."
She clapped her hands. In an instant, the green hangings became scarlet
and the silver became gold; the huge Slytherin serpent vanished and a
towering Gryffindor lion took its place. Slick was shaking Professor
Mitchell's hand, with a horrible, forced smile. She caught Grace's eye
and Grace knew at once that Slick's feelings toward her hadn't changed
one jot. This didn't worry Grace. It seemed as though life would be back
to normal next year, or as normal as it ever was at Hogwarts.
It was the best evening of Grace's life, better than winning at
Quidditch, or Christmas, or knocking out mountain trolls... she would
248
never, ever forget tonight.
Grace had almost forgotten that the exam results were still to come, but
come they did. To their great surprise, both she and Rhonda passed with good
marks; Henry, of course, had the best grades of the first years. Even
Shannon scraped through, her good Herbology mark making up for her
abysmal Potions one. They had hoped that Jillin, who was almost as stupid
as she was mean, might be thrown out, but she had passed, too. It was a
shame, but as Rhonda said, you couldn't have everything in life.
And suddenly, their wardrobes were empty, their trunks were packed,
Shannon's toad was found lurking in a corner of the toilets; notes were
handed out to all students, warning them not to use magic over the
holidays ("I always hope they'll forget to give us these," said Lisa
Weasley sadly); Hadley was there to take them down to the fleet of boats
that sailed across the lake; they were boarding the Hogwarts Express;
talking and laughing as the countryside became greener and tidier;
eating Bettie Bott's Every Flavor Beans as they sped past Muggle towns;
pulling off their wizard robes and putting on jackets and coats; pulling
into platform nine and three-quarters at King's Cross Station.
It took quite a while for them all to get off the platform. A wizened
old guard was up by the ticket barrier, letting them go through the gate
in twos and threes so they didn't attract attention by all bursting out
of a solid wall at once and alarming the Muggles.
"You must come and stay this summer," said Rhonda, "both of you -- I'll
send you an owl."
"Thanks," said Grace, "I'll need something to look forward to." People
jostled them as they moved forward toward the gateway back to the Muggle
world. Some of them called:
"Bye, Grace!"
"See you, Potter!"
"Still famous," said Rhonda, grinning at her.
"Not where I'm going, I promise you," said Grace.
She, Rhonda, and Henry passed through the gateway together. "There she is,
Mom, there she is, look!"
249
It was Jason Weasley, Rhonda's younger brother, but he wasn't pointing at
Rhonda.
"Grace Potter!" he squealed. "Look, Mom! I can see
"Be quiet, Jason, and it's rude to point."
Mr. Weasley smiled down at them.
"Busy year?" he said.
"Very," said Grace. "Thanks for the fudge and the sweater, Mr.
Weasley."
"Oh, it was nothing, dear."
"Ready, are you?"
It was Aunt Viola, still purple-faced, still mustached, still looking
furious at the nerve of Grace, carrying an owl in a cage in a station
full of ordinary people. Behind her stood Uncle Phil and Daffney,
looking terrified at the very sight of Grace.
"You must be Grace's family!" said Mr. Weasley.
"In a manner of speaking," said Aunt Viola. "Hurry up, girl, we haven't
got all day." She walked away.
Grace hung back for a last word with Rhonda and Henry.
"See you over the summer, then."
"Hope you have -- er -- a good holiday," said Henry, looking
uncertainly after Aunt Viola, shocked that anyone could be so
unpleasant.
"Oh, I will," said Harriet, and they were surprised at the grin that was
spreading over her face. "They don't know we're not allowed to use magic
at home. I'm going to have a lot of fun with Daffney this summer...."
THE END
